143
PART I EQUIPME. T
Coin cp sp ep gp pp
Copper (cp) 1 1/10 l/50 1/100 1/1,000
Silver (sp) 10 1 1/5 1/10 1/100
Eleclrum (ep) 50 5 1 1/2 1/20
Gold (gp) 100 10 2 1 1/10
Platinum (pp) 1,000 100 20 10 1
Members of lhe nobilily lrade eilher in legal righls, such
as lhe righls lo a mine, a porl, or farmland, or in gold
bars, measuring gold by lhe pound ralher than by lhe
coin. Only merchanls, advenlurers, and lhose offering
prafessional services for hire commonly deal in coins.
Common coins come in several differenl denominalions
based on lhe relalive worlh of the melai fram which lhey
are made. The lhree mosl common coins are lhe gold
piece (gp), lhe silver piece (sp), and lhe copper piece (cp).
Wilh one gold piece, a character can buy a belt
pouch, 50 feel of good rape, or a goat. A skilled (bUl
nol exceplional) arlisan can earn one gold piece a day.
The gold piece is lhe slandard unil of measure for
weallh, even if lhe coin ilself is nol commonly used.
When merchanls discuss deals lhal involve goods or
services worlh hundreds or thousands of gold pieces,
lhe lransaclions don'l usually involve lhe exchange of
individual coins. Ralher, lhe gold piece is a standard
measure of value, and lhe aclual exchange is in gold
bars, letters of credil, or valuable goods.
One gold piece is worlh len silver pieces, the mosl
prevalenl coin among commoners. A silver piece buys a
laborer's work for a day, a flask of lamp oil, or a night's
rest in a poor inn.
One silver piece is worlh len copper pieces, which are
common among laborers and beggars. A single copper
piece buys a candle, a lorch, or a piece of chalk.
In addition, unusual coins made of other precious
metais somelimes appear in lreasure hoards. The
eleclrum piece (ep) and lhe plalinum piece (pp) originale
from fallen empires and losl kingdoms, and lhey
sometimes arause suspicion and skepticism when used
in lransactions. An eleclrum piece is worth five silver
pieces, and a plalinum piece is worlh len gold pieces.
A standard coin weighs about a lhird of an ounce,
so fifty coins weigh a pound.
COINAGE
STANDARD EXCHANGE RATES
Class Funds
Barbarian 2d4 x 10 gp
Bard 5d4 x 10 gp
Cleric 5d4 x 10 gp
Druid 2d4 x 10 gp
Fighter 5d4 x 10 gp
Monk 5d4 gp
Paladin 5d4xl0gp
Ranger 5d4xl0gp
Rogue 4d4x10gp
Sorcerer 3d4 x 10 gp
Warlock 4d4 x 10 gp
Wizard 4d4 x 10 gp
CHAPTER 5: EQUIPMENT
~
STARTING EQUIPMENT
When you creale your characler, you receive equipment
based on a combinalion of your class and background.
Alternatively, you can starl with a number of gold pieces
based on your class and spend them on items fram lhe
lisls in this chapter. See the Slarling Weallh by Class
table lo determine how much gold you have lo spend.
Vou decide how your characler carne by lhis starting
equipment. II mighl have been an inherilance, or goods
lhat the characler purchased during his or her upbringing.
Vou might have been equipped with a weapon, armor, and
a backpack as part of military service. Vou mighl even have
stolen your gear. Aweapon could be a family heirloom,
passed down fram generalion lOgeneralion unlil your
characler finally look up lhe mantle and followed in an
anceslor's advenlurous footsteps.
STARTlNG WEALTH BY CLASS
HE MARKETPLACE OF A LARCE CITY TEEMS
with buyers and sellers of many sorts:
dwarf smiths and elf woodcarvers, halfling
farmers and gnome jewelers, not to mention
humans of every shape, size, and color
drawn fram a spectrum of nations and
cultures. In the largest cities, almost
anything imaginable is offered for sale, fram exotic
spices and luxurious clothing to wicker baskets and
practical swords.
For an adventurer, the availability of armor, weapons,
backpacks, rape, and similar goods is of paramount
importance, since praper equipmenl can mean lhe
difference belween life and dealh in a dungeon or the
unlamed wilds. This chapter delails the mundane and
exolic merchandise lhal adventurers commonly find useful
in lhe face of lhe lhreats lhal the worlds of 0&0 present.
Weallh appears in many forms in a 0&0 world. Coins,
gemslones, lrade goods, art objecls, animais, and
praperly can reftecl your characler's financiai well-being.
Members of lhe peasanlry trade in goods, barlering for
whal lhey need and paying laxes in grain and cheese.
WEALTH

SELLING TREASURE
ARMOR AND SHIELDS
Opportunities abound to find treasure, equipment,
weapons, armar, and more in the dungeons you explore.
Normally, you can sell your treasures and trinkets when
you return to a town ar other setllement, provided that you
can find buyers and merchants interested in your 1001.
Arms, Armor, and Other Equipment. As a general
rule, undamaged weapons, armar, and other equipment
fetch half their cost when sold in a market. Weapons
and armor used by monsters are rarely in good enough
condition to sell.
Magic Items. Selling magic items is prablematic.
Finding someone to buy a potion or a scroll isn't toa
hard, but other ilems are out of the realm of most but the
wealthiest nobles. Likewise, aside fram a few common
magic items, you won't normally come across magic
items ar spells to purchase. The value of magic is far
beyond simple gold and should always be treated as such.
Gems,jewe1ry, and Art Objects. These items retain
their full value in the marketplace, and you can either
trade them in for coin ar use them as currency for other
lransactions. For exceptionally valuable treasures, the
DM might require you to find a buyer in a large town ar
larger community first.
Trade Goods. On the borderlands, many people
conduct transactions through barter. Like gems and art
objects, trade goods-bars of iran, bags of salt, Iivestock,
and so on-relain lheir full value in the market and can
be used as currency.
D&D worlds are a vast tapestry made up of many
different cultures, each with its own technology leveI.
For this reason, adventurers have access to a variety
of armor types, ranging from leather armor to chain
mail to costly plate armar, with several other kinds of
armor in between. The Armor table collects the most
commonly available types of armar found in the game
and separates them into three calegories: light armor,
medium armar, and heavy armar. Many warriors
supplement their armar with a shield.
•• ••
The Armar table shows the cost, weight, and other
properties of the common lypes of armor worn in the
worlds of D&D.
Armor Proficiency. Anyone can put on a suit of armar
ar strap a shield to an armo Only those praficient in the
armor's use know how to wear it effectively, however.
Your class gives you praficiency with certain types of
armor.lfyou wear armor that you lack proficiency with,
you have disadvantage on any ability check, saving
thraw, ar atlack roll that involves Strength or Dexterity,
and you can't cast spells.
Armor Class (AC).Armar protects its wearer fram
atlacks. The armar (and shield) you wear determines
your base Armar Class.
Heavy Armor. Heavier armor interferes with the
wearer's ability to move quickly, stealthily, and freely.
lf the Armor table shows "Str 13" ar "Str 15" in the
Strength column for an armar type, the armar reduces
the wearer's speed by 10 feet unless the wearer has a
Strength score equal to or higher than the listed score.
Stealth. lf the Armar table shows "Disadvanlage" in
the Stealth column, the wearer has disadvantage on
Dexterity (Stealth) checks.
Shields. A shield is made fram wood ar metal and
is carried in one hand. Wielding a shield increases
your Armar Class by 2. Vou can benefit from only one
shield at a time.
LIGHTARMOR
Made fram supple and thin materiais, light armor favors
agile adventurers since it offers some pratection without
sacrificing mobility. If you wear light armar, you add
your Dexterity modifier to the base number from your
armar type to determine your Armar Class.
Padded. Padded armar consists of quilted layers of
cloth and batting.
Leather. The breastplate and shoulder protectors of
this armor are made of leather that has been stiffened
by being boiled in oil. The rest of the armar is made of
softer and more flexible materiaIs.
Studded Leather. Made from tough but flexible
leather, studded leather is reinforced with close-set
rivets ar spikes .
VARIANT: EQUIPMENT SIZES
In most campaigns, you can use ar wear any equipment that
you find on your adventures, within the bounds of common
sense. For example, a burly haif.orc won't fit in a halfling's
leather armar, and a gnome would be swallowed up in a
c10ud giant's elegant robe.
The DM can impose more realism. For example, a suit of
plate armar made for one human might not fit another one
without significant alterations, and a guard's uniform mighl
be visibly ill.fitting when an adventurer tries to wear it as a
disguise.
Using this variant, when adventurers find armar, c1othing.
and similar items that are made to be worn, they might need
to visit an armorsmith, tailor, leatherworker, ar similar exper!
to make the item wearable. The cost for such work varies
from 10 to 40 percent ofthe market price ofthe item. The
DM can either rollld4 x 10 ar determine the increase in cost
based on the extent of the alterations required.
•-•-•-•------------------ •r.
PART 1 I EQUIPMENT
MEDIUM ARMOR
Medium armar offers more pratection than light armar,
but il also impairs movement more.lfyou wear medium
armor, you add your Dexlerity modifier, to a maximum
of +2, to the base number fram your armor type to
determine your Armar Class.
Hide. This crude armor consists of thick furs and
pelts. lt is commonly worn by barbarian tribes, evil
humanoids, and other folk who lack access to the tools
and materiaIs needed lOcreate betler armor.
Chain Shirt. Made of interlocking metal rings, a chain
shirl is worn belween layers of clothing ar leather. This
armor offers modest protection to the wearer's upper
body and allows lhe sound of the rings rubbing against
one another to be muffled by outer layers.
ScaleMail.This armar consists of a coat and leggings
(and perhaps a separate skirt) of leather covered with
overlapping pieces of metal, much like the scales of a
fish, The suit includes gauntlets,
Breastp/ate. This armor consists of a fitted metal
chest piece worn with supple leather, Although it leaves
the legs and arms relatively unprotected, this armor
provides good protection for the wearer's vital organs
while leaving the wearer relatively unencumbered,
Ha/fP/ate. Half plate consists of shaped metal plates
that cover most of the wearer's body, 1tdoes not include
leg protection beyond simple greaves that are attached
with leather straps.
HEAVY ARMOR
Of al1 the armor categories, heavy armor offers the best
protection. These suits of armor cover the entire body
and are designed to stop a wide range of attacks. Only
proficient warriors can manage their weight and bulk.
Heavy armor doesn't let you add your Dexterity
modifier to your Armor Class, but it also doesn't
penalize you if your Dexterity modifier is nega tive.
Ring Mail. This armor is leather armor with heavy
rings sewn into it. The rings he1p reinforce the armor
against blows from swords and axes. Ring mail is
inferior to chain mail, and it"s usual1y worn only by those
who can't afford better armor.
Chain Mail. Made of interlocking metal rings, chain
mail includes a layer of quilted fabric worn underneath
themail to prevent chafing and to cushion the impact of
blows. The suit includes gauntlets.
Splint. This armor is made of narrow vertical strips
of metal riveted to a backing of leather that is worn over
c10th padding. Flcxible chain mail protects the joints.
P/ate. Plate consists of shaped, interlocking metal
plates to cover the entire body. Asuit of plate includes
gauntlets, heavy leather boots, a visored helmet, and
thick layers of padding underneath the armor. Buckles
and straps distribute the weight over the body.
ARMOR
Armor Cost Armor Class (AC) Strength Stealth Weight
Light Armor
Padded 5 gp 11 + Dex modifier Disadvantage 81b.
Leather 10 gp 11 + Dex modifier 101b.
Studded leather 45 gp 12 + Dex modifier 13lb.
Medium Armor
Hide 10 gp 12 + Dex modifier (max 2) 121b.
Chain shirt 50 gp 13 + Dex modifier (ma x 2) 201b.
Seale mai! 50 gp 14 + Dex modifier (max 2) Disadvantage 451b.
Breastplate 400 gp 14 + Dex modifier (max 2) 201b.
Half plate 750 gp 15 + Dex modifier (max 2) Disadvantage 401b.
HeavyArmor
Ring mail 30 gp 14 Disadvantage 401b.
Chain mail 75 gp 16 Str 13 Disadvantage 551b.
Splint 200 gp 17 Str 15 Disadvantage 601b.
Plate 1,500 gp 18 Str 15 Disadvantage 651b.
Shield
Shield 10 gp +2 61b.
PART 1 EQUIPMENT
'45
PART I I EQUIPMENT
GETTING INTo AND OUT OF ARMOR
The lime il lakes lo don or doff armor depends on lhe
armor's calegory.
Don. This is lhe lime it takes lo pul on armor. Vou
benefil from lhe armor's AC only if you lake lhe full lime
lOdon lhe suil of armor.
Dolf. This is lhe lime il lakes lo lake off armor. lf you
have help, reduce lhis time by half.
DONNING ANO DOFFING ARMOR
Category Oon Ooff
Lighl Armor 1 minute 1 minute
Medium Armor 5 minutes 1 minute
Heavy Armor 10 minutes 5 minutes
Shield 1 action 1 action
WEAPONS
Your class granls proficiency in cerlain weapons,
reflecling boIh lhe class's focus and lhe lools you are
mosl likely lo use. Whelher you favor a longsword or
a longbow, your weapon and your abilily lo wield il
effeclively can mean lhe difference belween tife and
dealh while advenluring.
The Weapons lable shows lhe mosl common weapons
used in lhe worlds of 0&0, lheir price and weighl,
lhe damage lhey deal when lhey hil, and any special
properlies lhey possesso Every weapon is classified
as eilher melee or ranged. A melee weapon is used lo
attack a largel wilhin 5 feel of you, whereas a ranged
weapon is used lo attack a largel aI a dislance.
WEAPON PROFICIENCY
Your race, class, and feals can granl you proficiency
wilh cerlain weapons or calegories of weapons. The lwo
calegories are simple and martial. Mosl people can
use sim pIe weapons wilh proficiency. These weapons
include clubs, maces, and olher weapons oflen found in
lhe hands of commoners. Marlial weapons, including
swords, axes, and polearms, require more speciatized
lraining lOuse effeclively. Mosl warriors use marlial
weapons because lhese weapons pul their fighling slyle
and lraining lo besl use.
Proficiency wilh a weapon allows you lo add your
proficiency bonus lo lhe atlack roll for any attack you
make wilh lhat weapon. If you make an atlack roll using
a weapon wilh which you lack proficiency, you do nol
add your proficiency bonus lo lhe atlack roll.
WEAPON PROPERTIES
Many weapons have special properlies relaled lo lheir use,
as shown in lhe Weapons lable.
Ammunition. Vou can use a weapon lhal has lhe
ammunilion properly lo make a ranged attack only if
you have ammunilion lo fire from lhe weapon. Each
time you atlack wilh lhe weapon, you expend one piece
of ammunilion. Orawing lhe ammunition from a quiver,
case, or olher conlainer is parI of lhe atlack. AI lhe
end of lhe baltle, you can recover half your expended
ammunilion by laking a minule lo search lhe battlefield.

If you use a weapon that has the ammunition property
to make a melee attack, you treat the weapon as an
improvised weapon (see "Improvised Weapons" later in
the section). Asling must be loaded to deal any damage
when used in this way.
Finesse. When making an attack with a finesse
weapon, you use your choice of your Strength or
Dexterity modifier for the attack and damage rolls. Vou
must use the same modifier for both rolls.
Heavy. Small creatures have disadvantage on attack
rolls with heavy weapons. A heavy weapon's size and
bulk make it toa large for a Small creature to use
effectively.
Light. A light weapon is small and easy to handle,
making it ideal for use when fighting with two weapons.
See the rules for two-weapon fighting in chapter 9.
Loading. Because of the time required to load this
weapon, you can fire only one piece of ammunition
from it when you use an action, bonus action, or reaction
to fire it, regardless of the number of attacks you can
normally make.
Range. A weapon that can be used to make a ranged
attack has a range shown in parentheses after the
ammunition or thrown property. The range lists two
numbers. The first is the weapon's normal range in feet,
and the second indicates the weapon's maximum range.
When attacking a target beyond normal range, you have
disadvantage on the attack rol I. Vou can't attack a target
beyond the weapon's long range.
Reach. This weapon adds 5 feet to your reach when
you attack with it.
Special. A weapon with the special property has
unusual rules governing its use, explained in the
weapon's description (see "Special Weapons" later in
this section).
Thrown. If a weapon has the thrown property, you
can throw the weapon to make a ranged attack. If the
weapon is a melee weapon, you use the same ability
modifier for that attack roll and damage roll that you
would use for a melee attack with the weapon. For
example, ifyou throw a handaxe, you use your Strength,
but if you throw a dagger, you can use either your
Strength or your Dexterity, since the dagger has the
finesse property.
Two.Handed. This weapon requires two hands to use.
Versatile. This weapon can be used with one or two
hands. A damage value in parentheses appears with the
property-the damage when the weapon is used with
two hands to make a melee attack.
" .
IMPROVISED WEAPONS
Sometimes characters don't have their weapons and
have to attack with whatever is dose at hand. An
improvised weapon indudes any object you can wield
in one or two hands, such as broken glass, a table leg, a
frying pan, a wagon wheel, or a dead goblin.
In many cases, an improvised weapon is similar
to an actual weapon and can be treated as such. For
example, a table leg is akin to a dub. At the DM's option.
a character proficient with a weapon can use a similar
object as if it were that weapon and use his or her
proficiency bonus.
/-
PART 1 EQUIPMENT
147'4.8
An object that bears no resemblance to a weapon
deals ld4 damage (the DM assigns a damage type
appropriate to the object). Ir a characler uses a ranged
weapon lo make a melee atlack, or throws a melee
weapon that does not have the thrown property, it also
deals ld4 damage. An improvised thrown weapon has a
normal range of 20 feet and a long range of 60 feet.
SILVERED WEAPONS
Some monsters that have immunity or resistance
to nonmagical weapons are susceptible to silver
weapons, so caulious adventurers invest extra coin to
plate their weapons with silver. Vou can silver a single
weapon or ten pieces of ammunition for 100 gp. This
cost represents not only the price of the silver, but the
time and expertise needed to add silver to the weapon
without making it less effective.
SPECIAL WEAPONS
Weapons with special rules are described here.
Lance. Vou have disadvantage when you use a lance
to attack a target within 5 feet of you. Also, a lance
requires two hands to wield when you aren't mounted.
Net. A Large or smaller creature hit by a net is
restrained until it is freed. A net has no effect on
PART 1 I EQUIPMENT
creatures that are formless, or creatures that are Huge
or larger. A creature can use its action to make a DC 10
Strength check, freeing itself or another creature within
its reach on a success. Dealing 5 slashing damage to the
net (AC 10) also frees the creature without harming it,
ending the effect and destroying the net.
When you use an action, bonus action, or reaction
to atlack with a net, you can make only one attack
regardless of the number of attacks you can
normally make.
AnVENTURING GEAR
This section describes items that have special rules or
require further explanation.
Acid. As an action, you can splash the contents of
this vial onto a creature within 5 feet of you or throw
the vial up to 20 feet, shattering it on impact. In either
case, make a ranged attack against a creature or object,
treating the acid as an improvised weapon. On a hit, the
target takes 2d6 acid damage.
Alchemist's Fire. This sticky, adhesive fluid ignites
when exposed to air. As an action, you can throw this
flask up to 20 feet, shattering it on impact. Make a
ranged attack against a creature or object, treating

Name Cost Damage Weight Properties
Simp!e Melee Weapons
Club 1 sp 1d4 bludgeoning 21b. Light
Dagger 2 gp 1d4 piercing 1 Ib. Finesse, light, thrown (range 20/60)
Greatclub 2sp 1d8 bludgeoning 101b. Two-handed
Handaxe 5 gp 1d6slashing 21b. Light, thrown (range 20/60)
Javelin 5 sp 1d6 piercing 21b. Thrown (range 30/120)
Light hammer 2 gp 1d4 bludgeoning 21b. Light, thrown (range 20/60)
Mace 5 gp 1d6 bludgeoning 41b.
Quarterstaff 2sp 1d6 bludgeoning 41b. Versatile (1d8)
Sickle 1 gp 1d4 slashing 21b. Light
Spear 1 gp 1d6 piercing 3 Ib. Thrown (range 20/60), versatile (ld8)
Unarmed strike 1 bludgeoning
Simp!e Ranged Weapons
Crossbow, light 25 gp ld8 piercing 51b. Ammunition (range 80/320), loading, two.handed
Dart 5 cp 1d4 piercing 1/4Ib. Finesse, thrown (range 20/60)
Shortbow 25 gp 1d6 piercing 21b. Ammunition (range 80/320), two.handed
Sling 1 sp 1d4 bludgeoning Ammunition (range 30/120)
Martia! Melee Weapons
Battleaxe 10 gp 1d8slashing 41b. Versatile (ld10)
Flail 10 gp 1d8 bludgeoning 21b.
Glaive 20 gp 1dl O slashing 61b. Heavy, reach, two-handed
Greataxe 30 gp 1d12 slashing 71b. Heavy, two-handed
Greatsword 50 gp 2d6slashing 61b. Heavy, two.handed
Halberd 20 gp 1d10 slashing 61b. Heavy, reach, two.handed
Lance 10 gp 1d12 piercing 61b. Reach, special
Longsword 15 gp 1d8 slashing 31b. Versatile (ldl0)
Maul 10 gp 2d6 bludgeoning 101b. Heavy, two.handed
Morningstar 15 gp 1d8 piercing 41b.
Pike 5 gp 1d10 piercing 181b. Heavy, reach, two.handed
Rapier 25 gp 1d8 piercing 21b. Finesse
Scimitar 25 gp 1d6slashing 31b. Finesse, light
Shortsword 10 gp 1d6 piercing 21b. Finesse, light
Trident 5 gp ld6 piercing 41b. Thrown (range 20/60), versatile (ld8)
War pick 5 gp ld8 piercing 21b.
Warhammer 15 gp 1d8 bludgeoning 21b. Versatile (ld10)
Whip 2 gp 1d4slashing 31b. Finesse, reach
Martial Ranged Weapons
Blowgun 10 gp 1 piercing 11b. Ammunition (range 25/100), loading
Crossbow, hand 75 gp 1d6 piercing 31b. Ammunition (range 30/120), light, loading
Crossbow, heavy 50 gp 1dlO piercing 181b. Ammunition (range 100/400), heavy, loading, two.handed
Longbow 50 gp 1d8 piercing 21b. Ammunition (range 150/600), heavy, two-handed
Ne! 1 gp 31b. Special, thrown (range 5/15)
PARl I EQUIPMENT
149
Item Cost Weight Item Cost Weight
Abacus 2 gp 21b. Ho/y symbo/
Acid (vial) 25 gp 1 Ib. Amulet 5 gp 1 Ib.
Alchemist's fire (flask) 50 gp 1 Ib. Emblem 5 gp
Ammunition Reliquary 5 gp 21b.
Arrows (20) 1 gp 1 Ib. Holy water (flask) 25 gp llb.
Blowgun needles (50) 1 gp llb. Hourglass 25 gp 1 Ib.
Crossbow bolts (20) 1 gp 1'/2 Ib. Hunting trap 5 gp 251b.
Sling bullets (20) 4 cp 1'/2 Ib. Ink (1 ounce bottle) 10 gp
Antitoxin (vial) 50 gp Ink pen 2 cp
Arcane Jocus Jug or pitcher 2 cp
Crystal 10 gp llb. Ladder (10-foot) 1 sp
Orb 20 gp 31b. Lamp 5 sp
Rod 10 gp 21b. Lantern, bullseye 10 gp
Staff 5 gp 41b. Lantern, hooded 5 gp
Wand 10 gp llb. Lock 10 gp
Backpack 2 gp 51b. Magnifying glass 100 gp
Ball bearings (bag of 1 000) 1 gp 21b. Manacles 2 gp
Barrei 2 gp 701b. Mess kit 2 sp
Basket 4 sp 21b. Mirror, steel 5 gp
Bedroll 1 gp 71b. Oil (flask) 1 sp
Bell 1 gp Paper (one sheet) 2 sp
Blanket 5 sp 31b. Parchment (one sheet) 1 sp
Block and tackle 1 gp 51b. Perfume (vial) 5 gp
Book 25 gp 51b. Piek, miner's 2 gp 101b.
Botlle, glass 2 gp 21b. Piton 5 cp 1/4Ib.
Bucket 5 cp 21b. Poison, basic (vial) 100 gp
Caltrops (bag of 20) 1 gp 21b. Pole (10-foot) 5 cp
Candle 1 cp Pot, iron 2 gp
Case, crossbow bolt 1 gp 1 Ib. Polion oJhealing 50 gp
Case, map or scroll 1 gp llb. Pouch 5 sp
Chain (10 feet) 5 gp 10 Ib. Quiver 1 gp
Chalk (l piece) 1 cp Ram, portable 4 gp
Chest 5 gp 251b. Rations (l day) 5 sp
Climber's kit 25 gp 121b. Robes 1 gp
Clothes, common 5 sp 31b. Rope, hempen (50 feet) 1 gp
Clothes, costume 5 gp 41b. Rope, silk (50 feet) 10 gp
Clothes, fine 15 gp 61b. Sack 1 cp
Clothes, traveler's 2 gp 41b. Scale, merchant's 5 gp
Component pouch 25 gp 21b. Sealing wax 5 sp
Crowbar 2 gp 51b. Shovel 2 gp
Druidic Jocus Signal whistle 5 cp
Sprig of mistletoe 1 gp Signe! ring 5 gp
Totem 1 gp Soap 2 cp
Wooden staff 5 gp 41b. Spellbook 50 gp 31b.
Yew wand 10 gp 1 Ib. Spikes, iron (10) 1 gp 51b.
Fishing tackle 1 gp 41b. Spyglass 1,000 gp llb.
Flask or tankard 2 cp 1 Ib. Tent, two-person 2 gp 201b.
Grappling hook 2 gp 41b. Tinderbox 5 sp llb.
Hammer 1 gp 31b. Torch 1 cp llb.
2 gp 101b. Vial 1 gp
5 gp 31b. Waterskin 2 sp
Whetstone 1 cp
PART I I EQUIPMENT
the alchemist's tire as an improvised weapon. On a
hit, the target takes Id4 tire damage at the start of
each of its turns. Acreature can end this damage by
using its action to make a DC 10 Dexterity check to
extinguish the liames.
Antitoxin. Acreature that drinks this viaI of liquid
gains advantage on saving throws against poison for I
hour. lt confers no benetit to undead or constructs.
Arcane Focus. An arcane focus is a special iteman
orb, a crystal, a rod, a specially constructed staff,
a wand.like length ofwood, or some similar itemdesigned
to channel the power of arcane spells. A
sorcerer, warlock, or wizard can use such an item as a
spellcasting focus, as described in chapter 10.
Bal/ Bearings. As an action, you can spill these tiny
metal balls from their pouch to cover a levei area 10
feet square. Acreature moving across the covered area
must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw or fali
prone. A creature moving through the area at half speed
doesn't need to make the saving throw.
Block and Tackle. Aset of pulleys with a cable
threaded through them and a hook to attach to objects, a
block and tackle allows you to hoist up to four times the
weight you can normally lift.
Book. A book might contain poetry, historical
accounts, information pertaining to a particular tield
of lore, diagrams and notes on gnomish contraptions,
or just about anything else that can be represented
using text or pictures. A book of spells is a spellbook
(described later in this section).
Caltrops. As an action, you can spread a single bag
of caltrops to cover a 5-foot-square area. Any creature
that enters the area must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity
saving throw or stop moving and take I piercing
damage. Unti! the creature regains at least I hit point,
its walking speed is reduced by 10 feet. Acreature
moving through the area at half speed doesn't need to
make the saving throw.
Candle. For I hour, a candle sheds bright light in a
5.foot radius and dim light for an additional 5 feet.
Case, Crossbow Bolt. This wooden case can hold up
to twenty crossbow bolts.
Case, Map or Scrol/. This cylindricalleather case can
hold up to ten rolled-up sheets of paper or tive rolled-up
sheets of parchment.
Chain. Achain has 10 hit points. lt can be burst with a
successful DC 20 Strength check.
Climber's Kit. Aclimber's kit includes special pitons,
boot tips, gloves, and a harness. You can use the
climber's kit as an action to anchor yourself; when you
do, you can't fali more than 25 feet from the point where
you anchored yourself, and you can't climb more than 25
feet away from that point without undoing the anchor.
Component Pouch. A component pouch is a small,
watertight leather belt pouch that has compartments
to hold ali the material components and other special
items you need to cast your spells, except for those
components that have a specitic cost (as indicated in a
spell's description).
Crowbar. Using a crowbar granls advantage
to Strength checks where the crowbar's leverage
can be applied.
Druidic Focus. A druidic focus might be a sprig of
mistletoe or holly, a wand or scepter made of yew or
another special wood, a staff drawn whole out of a living
tree, or a totem object incorporating feathers, fur, bones,
and teeth from sacred animaIs. Adruid can use such an
object as a spellcasting focus, as described in chapter 10.
Fishing Tackle. This kit includes a wooden rod, silken
line, corkwood bobbers, steel hooks, lead sinkers, velvet
lures, and narrow netting.
Healer's Kit. This kit is a leather pouch containing
bandages, salves, and splints. The kit has ten uses. As
an action, you can expend one use of the kit to stabilize
a creature that has O hit points, without needing to make
a Wisdom (Medicine) check.
Holy Symbol. A holy symbol is a representation of
a god or pantheon. lt might be an amulet depicting a
symbol representing a deity, the same symbol carefully
engraved or inlaid as an emblem on a shield, or a tiny
box holding a fragment of a sacred relic. Appendix B
lists the symbols commonly associated with many gods
in the multiverse. Acleric or paladin can use a holy
symbol as a spellcasting focus, as described in chapter
lO. To use the symbol in this way, the caster must hold it
in hand, wear it visibly, or bear it on a shield.
Holy Water. As an action, you can splash the contents
of this lIask onto a creature within 5 feet of you or throw
it up to 20 feet, shattering it on impact. In either case,
make a ranged attack against a target creature, treating
the holy water as an improvised weapon. If the target is
a tiend or undead, it takes 2d6 radiant damage.
4 ,
EQUIPMENT PACKS
lhe starting equipmenl you gel fram your elass ineludes a
colleclion of useful advenluring gear, pullogelher in a pack.
lhe conlenls oflhese packs are Iisled here. Ifyou are buying
your slarling equipmenl, you can purchase a pack for lhe
price shown, which mighl be cheaper lhan buying lhe ilems
individually.
Surglar's Pack (16 gp). Ineludes a backpack, a bag of 1,000
ball bearings, 10 feel of slring, a bell, 5 candles, a crowbar, a
hammer, 10 pilons, a hooded lanlern, 2 ftasks of oil, 5 days
ralions, a linderbox, and a walerskin. lhe pack also has 50
feel of hempen rope slrapped lo lhe side of it.
Diplomat's Pack (39 gp). Ineludes a chesl, 2 cases for maps
and scrolls, a seI offine elolhes, a bollle ofink, an ink pen,
a lamp, 2 flasks of oil, 5 sheels of paper, aviai of perfume,
sealing wax, and soap.
Dungeoneer's Pack (12 gp). Ineludes a backpack, a crowbar,
a hammer, 10 pilons, 10 lorches, a linderbox, 10 days
of ralions, and a walerskin. lhe pack also has 50 feel of
hempen rope slrapped lo lhe side of il.
Entertainer's Pack (40 gp). Ineludes a backpack, a bedrall,
2 coslumes, 5 candles, 5 days of ralions, a walerskin, and a
disguise kil.
Explorer's Pack (10 gp). Ineludes a backpack, a bedrall,
a mess kil, a linderbox, 10 lorches, 10 days of ralions, and
a walerskin. lhe pack also has 50 feel ofhempen rape
slrapped lo lhe side of il.
Priest's Pack (19 gp). Ineludes a backpack, a blankel, 10
candles, a linderbox, an alms box, 2 blocks ofincense, a
censer, veslmenls, 2 days of ralions, and a walerskin.
Scholar's Pack (40 gp). Includes a backpack, a book aflore,
a boltle ofink, an ink pen, 10 sheels ofparchmenl, a lillle
bag of sand, and a small knife.
~ ~
PART I EQUIP fENTA cleric ar paladin may create holy water by
performing a special ritual. The ritual takes 1 hour
to perform, uses 25 gp worth of powdered silver, and
requires the caster to expend a 1st-levei spell slot.
Hunting Trap. When you use your action to set it,
this trap forms a saw-toothed steel ring that snaps shut
when a creature steps on apressure plate in the center.
The trap is affixed bya heavy chain to an immobi!e
object, such as a tree ar a spike driven into the ground.
A creature that steps on the plate must succeed on a DC
13 Dexterity saving throw ar take Id4 piercing damage
and stop moving. Thereafter, unti! the creature breaks
free of the trap, its movement is limited by the length
of the chain (typically 3 feet long). Acreature can use
its action to make a DC 13 5trength check, freeing
itself ar another creature within its reach on a success.
Each fai!ed check deals 1 piercing damage to the
trapped creature.
Lamp. A lamp casts bright light in a 15-foot radius
and dim light for an additional 30 feet. Once lit, il burns
for 6 hours on a flask (1 pint) of oil.
Lantern, Bul/seye. A bullseye lantern casts bright
light in a 60-foot cone and dim light for an additional 60
feet. Once lit, it burns for 6 hours on a flask (1 pint) of oil.
Lantern, Hooded. A hooded lantern casts bright light
in a 30-foot radius and dim light for an additional 30
feet. Once lit, it burns for 6 hours on a flask (1 pinl) of
oil. As an action, you can lower the hood, reducing the
light lo dim light in a 5-foot radius.
Lock. A key is provided with the lock. Without the
key, a creature proticient with thieves' toois can pick
this lock with a successful DC 15 Dexterity check.
Vour DM may decide that better locks are available
for higher prices.
PART 1 I EQUIPMENT
Magnifying Glass. This lens allows a closer look at
small objects. It is also useful as a substitute for flint
and steel when starting tires. Lighting a /ire with a
magnifying glass requires light as bright as sunlight to
focus, tinder to ignite, and about 5 minutes for the /ire
to ignite. A magnifying glass grants advantage on any
ability check made to appraise ar inspect an item that is
small ar highly detailed.
Manacles. These metal restraints can bind a 5mall
ar Medium creature. Escaping the manacles requires
a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. Breaking them
requires a successful DC 20 5trength check. Each
set of manacles comes with one key. Without the key,
a creature pro/icient with thieves' tools can pick the
manacles' lock with a successful DC 15 Dexterity
check. Manacles have 15 hit points.
Mess Kit. This tin box contains a cup and simple
cutlery. The box clamps together, and one side can
be used as a cooking pan and the other as a plate ar
shallow bowl.
Oi/. Oi! usually comes in a clay flask that holds 1
pintoAs an action, you can splash the oi! in this flask
anta a creature within 5 feet of you ar throw it up to
20 feet, shattering it on impacto Make a ranged attack
against a target creature ar object, treating the oi! as
an improvised weapon. On a hit, the target is covered
in oil. If the larget takes any /ire damage before the oi!
dries (after 1 minute), the target takes an additional 5
/ire damagc from the burning oil. Vou can also pour a
flask of oi! on the ground to cover a 5-foot-square area,
provided that the surface is leveI. Ir lit. the oi! burns for
2 rounds and deals 5 tire damage to any creature that
enters the area ar ends its turn in the area, A creature
can take this damage only once per turno
CONTAINER CAPACITY
)'C You can al50 strap items, such as a bedroll ar a coil af rape,
to lhe oulside of a backpack.
SpYI1/ass. Objeets viewed through a spyglass are
magnitied to twice their size.
Tent. A simple and portable canvas shelter, a
tent sleeps two.
Tinderbox. This small container holds fiint, tire steel,
and tinder (usually dry c10th soaked in Iight oil) used lo
kindle a tire. Using it to Iight a torch-or anything else
with abundant, exposed fuel-takes an action. Lighting
any olher tire takes 1 minute.
Torch. A torch burns for 1 hour, providing bright Iight
in a 20.foot radius and dim light for an additional 20
fee!. If you make a melee attack with a burning torch
and hit, it deals 1 tire damage.
Poison, Basic. Vou can use the poison in Ihis via I
lOcoat one slashing or piercing weapon or up to three
pieces of ammunition. Applying the poison takes
an action. A creature hit by the poisoned weapon or
ammunition must make a DC 10 Constitution saving
throw or take 1d4 poison damage. Once applied, the
poison retains potency for I minute before drying.
Potion ofHeaJinl1.A character who drinks the magical
red fiuid in this vial regains 2d4 + 2 hit points. Drinking
or administering a potion takes an action.
Pouch. A c10th or leather pouch can hold up to 20
sling bullets or 50 blowgun needles, among other
things. A compartmentalized pouch for holding spell
components is called a component pouch (described
earlier in this section).
Quiver. A quiver can hold up to 20 arrows.
Ram, Portable. Vou can use a portable ram to break
down doors. When doing so, you gain a +4 bonus on the
Strength check. One other character can help you use
the ram, giving you advantage on this check.
Rations. Rations consist of dry foods suitable
for extended travei, including jerky, dried fruit,
hardlack, and nuts.
Rope. Rope, whether made of hemp or silk, has 2 hit
points and can be burst with a DC 17 Strenglh check.
Sca/e, Merchant's. A scale includes a small balance,
pans, and a suitable assortment of weights up to 2
pounds. With it, you can measure the exact weight of
small objects, such as raw precious metais or trade
goods, to help determine their worth.
SpeJlbook. Essential for wizards, a spellbook is
a lealher.bound tome wilh 100 blank vellum pages
suitable for recording spells.
Container
Backpack*
Barrei
Basket
Bottle
Bucket
Chest
Flask ar lankard
Jug ar pilcher
PaI, iran
Pouch
Sack
Via I
Walerskin
Capacily
1 cubic f001/30 pounds of gear
40 gallons liquid, 4 cubic feel solid
2 cubic feel/40 pounds of gear
1112 pinls liquid
3 gallons liquid, 1/2 cubic fool solid
12 cubic feel/300 pounds of gear
1 pinlliquid
1 gallon liquid
1 gallon liquid
1/5 cubic f001/6 pounds of gear
1 cubic f001/30 pounds of gear
4 ounces liquid
4 pinls liquid
PART I EQUII'MENT
153
TOOLS
A to01helps you to do something you couldn't otherwise
do, such as craft or repair an item, forge a document, or
pick a lock. Your race, c1ass, background, or feats give
you proficiency with certa in tools. Proficiency with a to01
allows you to add your proficiency bonus to any ability
check you make using that tool. Too! use is not tied to
a single ability, since proficiency with a tool represents
broader knowledge of its use. For example, the DM
might ask you to make a Dexterity check to carve a fine
detail with your woodcarver's tools, or a Strength check
to make something out of particularly hard wood.
TOOlS
Item Cost Weight
Arlisan's lools
Alchemist's supplies 50 gp 81b.
Brewer's supplies 20 gp 91b.
Calligrapher's supplies 10 gp 51b.
Carpenter's tools 8 gp 61b.
Cartographer's tools 15 gp. 61b.
Cobbler's tools 5 gp 51b.
Cook's utensils 1 gp 81b.
Glassblower's tools 30 gp 51b.
Jeweler's tools 25 gp 21b.
Leatherworker's tools 5 gp 51b.
Mason's tools 10 gp 81b.
Painter's supplies 10 gp 51b.
Potter's tools 10 gp 31b.
Smith's tools 20 gp 81b.
Tinker's tools 50 gp 101b.
Weaver's tools 1 gp 51b.
Woodcarver's tools 1 gp 51b.
Disguise kit 25 gp 31b.
Forgery kit 15 gp 51b.
Gaming seI
Dice set 1 sp
Dragonchess set 1 gp 1/2Ib.
Playing card set 5sp
Three-Dragon Ante set 1 gp
Herbalism kit 5 gp 31b.
Musical instrument
Bagpipes 30 gp 61b.
Drum 6 gp 31b.
Dulcimer 25 gp 101b.
Flute 2 gp 1 Ib.
Lute 35 gp 21b.
Lyre 30 gp 21b.
Horn 3 gp 21b.
Pan Rute 12 gp 21b.
Shawm 2 gp llb.
Viol 30 gp llb.
Navigator's tools 25 gp 21b.
Poisoner's kit 50 gp 21b.
Thieves' tools 25 gp 1 Ib.
Vehicles (Iand ar water) " *
* See the "Mounts and Vehicles" section.
15+ PART I I EQUIPMENT
Artisan's Too/s. These special tools inc1ude the items
needed to pursue a craft or trade. The table shows
examples of the most common types of tools, each
providing items related to a single craft. Proficiency
with a set of artisan's tools lets you add your proficiency
bonus to any ability checks you make using the tools
in your craft. Each type of artisan's tools requires a
separate proficiency.
Disl1uise Kit. This pouch of cosmetics, hair dye, and
small props lets you create disguises that change your
physical appearance. Proficiency with this kit lets you
add your proficiency bonus to any ability checks you
make to create a visual disguise.
Forl1ery Kit. This small box contains a variety of
papers and parchments, pens and inks, seals and
sealing wax, gold and silver leaf, and other supplies
necessary to create convincing forgeries of physica!
documents. Proficiency with this kit lets you add your
proficiency bonus to any ability checks you make to
create a physical forgery of a document.
Gaminl1 Set. This item encompasses a wide range
of game pieces, inc1uding dice and decks of cards (for
games such as Three-Dragon Ante). A few common
examples appear on the Tools table, but other kinds of
gaming sets exist. If you are proficient with a gaming
set, you can add your proficiency bonus to ability checks
you make to play a game with that set. Each type of
gaming set requires a separate proficiency.
HerbaJism Kit. This kit contains a variety of
instruments such as c1ippers, morta r and pestIe, and
pouches and vials used by herbalists to create remedies
and potions. Proficiency with this kit lets you add your
proficiency bonus to any ability checks you make to
identify or apply herbs. AIso, proficiency with this kit is
required to create antitoxin and polions orhealinl1.
Musica/lnstrument. Several of the most common
types of musical instruments are shown on the table as
examples. Ir you have proficiency with a given musical
instrument, you can add your proficiency bonus to
any ability checks you make to play music with the
instrumento A bard can use a musical instrument as a
spellcasting focus, as described in chapter 10. Each type
of musical instrument requires a separate proficiency.
Navil1ator's Too/s. This set of instruments is used
for navigation at sea. Proficiency with navigator's tools
lets you chart a ship's course and follow navigation
charts. In addition, these tools allow you to add your
proficiency bonus to any ability check you make to avoid
getting lost at sea.
Poisoner's Kit. A poisoner's kit inc1udes the vials,
chemicals, and other equipment necessary for the
creation of poisons. Proficiency with this kit lets you add
your proficiency bonus to any ability checks you make to
craft or use poisons.
Thieves' Too/s. This set of tools inc1udes a small file,
a set of lock picks, a small mirror mounted on a metal
handle, a set of narrow-bladed scissors, and a pair of
pliers. Proficiency with these tools lets you add your
proficiency bonus to any ability checks you make to
disarm traps or open locks.
MOUNTS AND VEHICLES
A good mount can help you move more quickly through
the wilderness, but its primary purpose is to carry the
gear that would otherwise slow you down. The Mounts
and Other Animais table shows each animal's speed and
base carrying capacity.
An animal pulling a carriage, cart, chariot, sled,
or wagon can move weight up to tive times its base
carrying capacity, inc1uding the weight of the vehic1e.
If multiple animais pull the same vehic1e, they can add
their carrying capacity together.
Mounts other than those listed here are available in
the worlds of 0&0, but they are rare and not normally
available for purchase. These inc1ude flying mounts
(pegasi, griffons, hippogriffs, and similar animaIs) and
even aquatic mounts (giant sea horses, for example).
Acquiring such a mount often means securing an egg
and raising the creature yourself, making a bargain with
a powerful entity, or negotiating with the mount itself.
Barding. Barding is armor designed to protect an
animal's head, neck, chest, and body. Any type of
armor shown on the Armor table in this chapter can
be purchased as barding. The cost is four times the
equivalent armor made for humanoids, and it weighs
twice as much.
SaddJes. A military saddle braces the rider, helping
you keep your seat on an active mount in battle. 1t
gives you advantage on any check you make to remain
mounted. An exotic saddle is required for riding any
aquatic or flying mount.
VehicJe Proficiency. Ifyou have proticiency with a
certain kind of vehic1e (land or water), you can add your
proticiency bonus to any check you make to control that
kind of vehic1e in difficult circumstances.
Rowed Vesse1s. Keelboats and rowboats are used OH
lakes and rivers. If going downstream, add the speed of
the current (typically 3 miles per hour) to the speed of
55lhe vehicle. These vehicles can'l be rowed againsl any TRADE GOODS
significanl currenl, bUllhey can be pulled upslream
by drafl animais on lhe shores. A rowboal weighs 100
pounds, in case advenlurers carry il over land.
MOUNTS ANO OTHER ANIMALS
Carrying
Ilem CosI Speed Capacily
Camel 50 gp 50 fI. 4801b.
Donkey or mule 8 gp 40 fI. 4201b.
Elephanl 200 gp 40 fI. 1,320Ib.
Horse, drafl 50 gp 40 ft. 5401b.
Horse, riding 75 gp 60 fI. 4801b.
Masliff 25 gp 40 fI. 1951b.
Pony 30 gp 40 ft. 2251b.
Warhorse 400 gp 60 fI. 5401b.
CosI
1 cp
2 cp
5 cp
1 sp
5sp
1 gp
2 gp
3 gp
5 gp
10 gp
15 gp
50 gp
500 gp
Goods
1 ib. of wheat
1 ib. of fiour or one chicken
1 ib. of sall
1 Ib. ofiron or 1 sq. yd. of canvas
1 Ib. of copper or 1 sq. yd. of colton eloth
1 Ib. of ginger or one goat
1 Ib. of cinnamon or pepper, or one sheep
1 Ib. of c10ves or one pig
1 Ib. of silver or 1 sq. yd. oflinen
1 sq. yd. of silk or one eow
1 Ib. of saffron or one ox
1 Ib. of gold
1 Ib. of plalinum
LIFESTYLE EXPENSES
EXPENSES
When not descending into lhe depths of the earth,
exploring ruins for lost treasures, or waging war againsl
the encroaching darkness, adventurers face more
mundane realities. Even in a fanlastical world, people
require basic necessilies such as shelter, sustenance,
and clothing. These things cost money, allhough some
lifestyles cosI more lhan others.
Lifeslyle expenses provide you with a simple way lo
accounl for the cost of living in a fantasy world. They
cover your accommodations, food and drink, and ali
your olher necessities. Furthermore, expenses cover the
cosi of maintaining your equipment so you can be ready
when advenlure nexl calls.
At lhe slart of each week or month (your choice),
choose a lifeslyle from the Expenses lable and pay the
price to sustain lhat lifeslyle. The prices lisled are per
day, so if you wish lo calculate the cosI of your chosen
lifestyle over a thirly-day period, multiply the listed price
by 30. Your lifestyle might change from one period lo
lhe next, based on lhe funds you have aI your disposal,
or you might maintain lhe same lifestyle throughout
your character's career.
Your Iifestyle choice can have consequences.
Mainlaining a weallhy lifestyle might help you make
contacts with the rich and powerful, though you run the
risk of altracting thieves. Likewise, living frugally might
help you avoid criminais, but you are unlikely lo make
powerful conneclions.
Price/Day
1 sp
2sp
1 gp
2 gp
4 gp
10 gp minimum
LIFESTYLE EXPENSES
Lifeslyle
Wrelehed
Squalid
Poor
Modesl
Comforlable
Weallhy
Aristocratic
TACK, HARNESS, ANO DRAWN VEHICLES
Ilem CosI Weighl
Barding x4 x2
Bil and bridle 2 gp llb.
Carriage 100 gp 6001b.
Carl 15 gp 2001b.
Chariol 250 gp 1001b.
Feed (per day) 5 cp 101b.
$addle
Exolic 60 gp 401b.
Mililary 20 gp 301b.
Pack 5 gp 151b.
Riding 10 gp 251b.
Saddiebags 4 gp 81b.
Sled 20 gp 3001b.
Slabling (per day) 5sp
Wagon 35 gp 4001b.
WATERBORN E VEH ICLES
Ilem CosI Speed
Galley 30,000 gp 4 mph
Keelboal 3,000 gp 1 mph
Longship 10,000 gp 3 mph
Rowboal 50 gp llf2 mph
Sailing ship 10,000 gp 2 mph
Warship 25,000 gp 2'12 mph
TRADE GOODS
Mosl weallh is nol in coins. It is measured in liveslock,
grain, land, righlS lo collecllaxes, or righls lo resources
(such as a mine or a fores I).
Guilds, nobles, and royally regulale trade. Charlered
companies are granled righls to conducl trade along
certain routes, to send merchant ships to various ports,
or to buy or sell specific goods. Guilds set prices for
lhe goods or services lhat lhey conlrol, and determine
who may or may nol offer lhose goods and services.
Merchanls commonly exchange trade goods without
using currency. The Trade Goods table shows the value
of commonly exchanged goods.
PART 1 EQUIP lENT
157
FOOD, DRINK, AND LODGING
The Food, Drink, and Lodging table gives prices for
individual food items and a single night's lodging. These
prices are included in your totallifestyle expenses.
ComfortabJe. Choosing a comfortable lifestyle
means that you can afford nicer clothing and can easily
maintain your equipment. Vou live in a small cottage
in a middle-class neighborhood or in a private room
at a fine inn. Vou associate with merchants, skilled
tradespeople, and military officers.
Wea1thy. Choosing a wealthy lifestyle means living a
life of !uxury, though you might not have achieved the
social status associated with the old money of nobility
or royalty. Vou live a lifestyle comparable to that of a
highly successful merchant, a favored servant of the
royalty, or the owner of a few small businesses. Vou
have respectable lodgings, usually a spacious home in
a good part of town or a comfortable suite at a fine inn.
Vou likely have a small staff of servants.
Aristoeratie. Vou live a life of plenty and comfort. Vou
move in circles populated by the most powerful people
in the community. Vou have excellent lodgings, perhaps
a townhouse in the nicest part of town or rooms in the
finest inn. Vou dine at the best restaurants, retain the
most skilled and fashionable tailor, and have servants
attending to your every need. Vou receive invitations
to the social gatherings of the rich and powerful, and
spend evenings in the company of politicians, guild
leaders, high priests, and nobility. Vou must also
contend with the highest leveIs of deceit and treachery.
The wealthier you are, the greater the chance you will
be drawn into political intrigue as a pawn or participant.
Wretehed. Vou live in inhumane conditions. With
no place to call home, you shelter wherever you can,
sneaking into barns, huddling in old crates, and relying
on the goad graces of people better off than you. A
wretched lifestyle presents abundant dangers. Violence,
disease, and hunger follow you wherever you go. Other
wretched people cavet your armor, weapons, and
adventuring gear, which represent a fortune by their
standards. Vou are beneath the notice of most people.
SquaJid. Vou live in a leaky stable, a mud-floored hut
just outside town, or a vermin-infested boarding house
in the worst part of town. Vou have shelter from the
elements, but you live in a desperate and often vialent
environment, in places rife with disease, hunger, and
misfortune. Vou are beneath the notice of most people,
and you have few legal protections. Most people at
this lifestyle levei have suffered some terrible setback.
They might be disturbed, marked as exiles, or suffer
from disease.
Poor. A poor lifestyle means going without the
comforts available in a stable community. Simple food
and lodgings, threadbare clothing, and unpredictable
conditions result in a sufficient, though probably
unpleasant, experience. Vour accommodations might
be a room in a flophouse or in the common room above
a tavern. Vou benefit from some legal protections,
but you still have to contend with violence, crime,
and disease. People at this lifestyle levei tend to be
unskilled laborers, costermongers, peddlers, thieves,
mercenaries, and other disreputable types.
Modest. A modest lifestyle keeps you out of the slums
and ensures that you can maintain your equipment.
Vou live in an 01der part of town, renting a room in a
boarding house, inn, or temple. Vou don't go hungry or
thirsty, and your living conditions are clean, if simple.
Ordinary people living modest lifestyles include soldiers
with families, laborers, students, priests, hedge wizards,
and the like.
PART 11 EQUIPMENT
Fooo, DRINK, ANO LOOGING
Item
Ale
Callon
Mug
Banquet (per person)
Bread, loaf
Cheese, hunk
Inn stay (per day)
Squalid
Poor
Modest
Comfortable
Wealthy
Aristocratic
Meals (per day)
Squalid
Poor
Modest
Comfortable
Wealthy
Aristocratic
Meat, chunk
Wine
Common (pitcher)
Fine (bottle)
Cost
2 sp
4 cp
10 gp
2 cp
1 sp
7 cp
1 sp
5 sp
8 sp
2 gp
4 gp
3 cp
6 cp
3 sp
5 sp
8 sp
2 gp
3 sp
2 sp
10 gp
Skilled hirelings include anyone hired lo perform a
service that involves a proficiency (including weapon,
tool, or skill): a mercenary, artisan, scribe, and so on.
The pay shown is a minimum; some expert hirelings
require more pay. Untrained hirelings are hired for
menial work that requires no particular skill and can
include laborers, porters, maids, and similar workers.
SPELLCASTING SERVICES
When you make your character, you can roll once on
lhe Trinkets table to gain a trinket, a simple item lightly
touched by mystery. The DM might also use this table.
It can help stock a room in a dungeon or fiHa creature's
pockets.
People who are able to cast spells don't fali into the
category of ordinary hirelings. lt might be possible to
find someone willing to cast a spell in exchange for coin
or favors, but it is rarely easy and no established pay
rates exisl. As a rule, the higher the leveI of the desired
spell, the harder it is to find someone who can cast il
and the more it costs.
Hiring someone to cast a relatively common spell
of 1st or 2nd levei, such as cure wounds or identify, is
easy enough in a city or town, and might cost 10 to 50
gold pieces (plus the cost of any expensive material
components). Finding someone able and wiHing to
cast a higher-Ievel spell might involve traveling to a
large city, perhaps one with a university or prominent
temple. Once found, lhe spellcaster might ask for a
service instead of payment-the kind of service that
only adventurers can provide, such as retrieving arare
item from a dangerous locale or traversing a monsterinfested
wilderness to deliver somelhing important to
a distant settlemenl.
TRINKETS
••
••
Pay
2 gp per day
2 sp per day
2 cp per mile
1 cp
1 sp per mile
3 cp per mile
1 cp
Service
Coach cah
Belween lowns
Wilhin a eily
Hireling
Skilled
Untrained
Messenger
Road or gate 1011
Ship's passage
SELF-SUFFICIENCY
lhe expenses and lifeslyles deseribed in lhis ehapler assume
lhal you are spending your lime between advenlures in lown,
availing yourself of whalever serviees you ean afford-paying
for food and sheller, paying lownspeople lo sharpen your
sword and repair your armor, and so on. Some eharaelers,
lhough, mighl prefer lo spend lheir lime away from
eivilizalion, suslaining lhemselves in lhe wild by hunling,
foraging, and repairing lheir own gear.
Mainlaining lhis kind oflifeslyle doesn'l require you lO
spend any eoin, bul il is lime.eonsuming. If you spend
your lime between advenlures praelieing a profession, as
deseribed in ehapler 8, you ean eke oul the equivalent of a
poor Iifestyle. Profieieney in the Survival skilllets you live aI
the equivalent of a eomforlable lifestyle . ••
••
SERVICES
SERVICES
Advenlurers can pay nonplayer characters to assist them
or act on their behalf in a variety of circumstances. Most
such hirelings have fairly ordinary skills, while others
are masters of a craft or art, and a few are experts with
specialized adventuring skills.
Some of the most basic types of hirelings appear on
the Services table. Other common hirelings include
any of the wide variety of people who inhabit a typical
town or city, when the adventurers pay them to
perform a specific task. For example, a wizard might
paya carpenter to conslruct an elaborale chest (and
ils miniature replica) for use in the Leomund's secret
chest spell. A fighter might commission a blacksmilh to
forge a special sword. A bard mighl pay a tailor lo make
exquisite clothing for an upcoming performance in
front of the duke.
Olher hirelings provide more expert or dangerous
services. Mercenary soldiers paid to help the
advenlurers take on a hobgoblin army are hirelings, as
are sages hired to research ancient or esoleric lore. If a
high-Ievel adventurer establishes a stronghold of some
kind, he or she might hire a whole staff of servants and
agents to run the place, from a castellan or steward
to meniallaborers lo keep the stables clean. These
hirelings often enjoy a long-term contract that includes
a place to live within lhe stronghold as part of the
offered compensation.
PART I EQUIPMENT
59TRINKETS d100 Trinkel
d100 Trinkel 27 A shard of obsidian that always feels warm to the
01 A mummified goblin hand touch
02 A piece of crystal that faintly glows in the moonlight 28 A dragon's bony talon hanging from a plain leather
03 A gold coin minted in an unknown land necklace
04 A diary written in a language you don't know 29 A pair of old socks
05 A brass ring that never tarnishes 30 A blank book whose pages refuse to hold ink, chalk,
06 An old chess piece made from glass graphite, or any olher substance or marking
07 A pair ofknucklebone dice, each with a skull symbol 31 A silver badge in the shape of a five-pointed star
on the si de thal would normally show six pips 32 A knife lhat belonged to a relative
08 A small idol depicting a nightmarish creature that 33 A glass via I filled with nail c1ippings
gives you unsettling dreams when you sleep near it 34 A rectangular metal device with two tiny metal cups
09 A rope necklace from which dangles four mummified on one end that throws sparks when wet
elf fingers 35 A white, sequined glove sized for a human
10 The deed for a parcel ofland in a realm unknown 36 A vest with one hundred liny pockets
to you 37 A small, weightless stone block
11 A l-ounce block made from an unknown material 38 A tiny sketch portrait of a goblin
12 A small c10th doll skewered with needles 39 An empty glass vial that smells of perfume when
13 A tooth from an unknown beast opened
14 An enormous scale, perhaps from a dragon 40 A gemstone that looks like a lump of coai when
15 A bright green feather examined by anyone but you
16 An old divination card bearing your likeness 41 A scrap of c10th from an old banner
17 A glass orb filled with moving smoke 42 A rank insignia from a lost legionnaire
18 A 1-pound egg wilh a bright red shell 43 A tiny silver bell without a c1apper
19 A pipe that blows bubbles 44 A mechanical canary inside a gnomish lamp
20 A glass jar containing a weird bit of fiesh fioating in 45 A tiny chest carved to look like it has numerous feet
pickling fiuid on the bottom
21 A tiny gnome-crafted music box that plays a song 46 A dead sprite inside a clear glass bottle
you dimly remember from your childhood 47 A metal can that has no opening but sounds as if it
22 A small wooden statuette of a smug halfiing is filled with liquid, sand, spiders, or broken glass
23 A brass orb etched with strange runes (your choice)
24 A multicolored stone disk 48 A glass orb filled with water, in which swims a
25 A tiny silver icon of a raven c1ockwork goldfish
26 A bag containing forty-seven humanoid teeth, one 49 A silver spoon with an M engraved on the handle
of which is rotten 50 A whistle made from gold-colored wood
160
PART I I EQUIPMENT
dlOO Trinkel dlOO Trinkel
51 A dead scarab beelle lhe size of your hand 79 An invilalion lO a parly where a murder happened
52 Two loy soldiers, one wilh a missing head 80 A bronze penlaele wilh an elching of a ral's head
53 A small box filled wilh differenl.sized bultons in its center
54 A candle lhal can'l be lil 81 A purple handkerchief embroidered with lhe name of
55 A liny cage wilh no door a powerful archmage
56 An old key 82 Half of a floorplan for a lemple, caslle, or some olher
57 An indecipherable lreasure map structure
58 A hill from a broken sword 83 A bil of folded clolh lhal, when unfolded, lurns inlo
59 A rabbil's fool a slylish cap
60 A glass eye 84 A receipl of deposil aI a bank in a far.flung cily
61 A cameo carved in the likeness of a hideous person 85 A diary wilh seven missing pages
62 A silver skulllhe size of a coin 86 An empty silver snuffbox bearing an inscription on
63 An alabaster mask lhe surface lhal says "dreams"
64 A pyramid of Slicky black incense thal smells very bad 87 An iron holy symbol devoled lo an unknown god
65 A nighlcap lhal, when worn, gives you pleasanl 88 A book lhallells lhe slory of a legendary hero's rise
dreams and fali, wilh lhe lasl chapler missing
66 A single callrop made from bone 89 Aviai of dragon blood
67 A gold monoele frame wilhoullhe lens 90 An ancienl arrow of elven design
68 A 1.inch cube, each si de painled a differenl color 91 A needle lhal never bends
69 A cryslal knob from a door 92 An ornale brooch of dwarven design
70 A small packel filled wilh pink dusl 93 An emply wine bollle bearing a prelty labellhal says,
71 A fragmenl of a beauliful song, wrilten as musical "The Wizard ofWines Winery, Red Dragon Crush,
noles on lwo pieces of parchmenl 331422.W"
72 A silver leardrop earring made from a realleardrop 94 A mosaic lile wilh a mullicolored, glazed surface
73 The shell of an egg painted wilh scenes of human 95 A pelrified mouse
misery in dislurbing delail 96 A black pirale flag adorned wilh a dragon's skull
74 A fan lhal, when unfolded, shows a sleeping cal and crossbones
75 A seI of bone pipes 97 A liny mechanical crab or spider lhal moves aboul
76 A four.leaf elover pressed inside a book discussing when it's not being observed
manners and eliquelle 98 A glass jar conlaining lard wilh a labellhal reads,
77 A sheel of parchmenl upon which is drawn a complex "Griffon Grease"
mechanical conlraplion 99 A wooden box wilh a ceramic boltom lhal holds a
78 An ornale scabbard lhal fils no blade you have living worm wilh a head on each end of ils body
found so far 100 A melai um conlaining lhe ashes of a hero
PART 1 EQUIPME T 161
