ACID SPLASH
Conjuration cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You hurl a bubble of acid. Choose one creature within
range, or choose two creatures within range that are
within 5 feet of each other. A target must succeed on a
Dexterity saving throw or take 1d6 acid damage.
This spell's damage increases by 1d6 when you reach
5th level (2d6), 11th level (3d6), and 17th level (4d6).

AID
2nd-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a tiny strip of white cloth)
Duration: 8 hours
Your spell bolsters your allies with toughness and resolve. Choose up to three creatures within range. Each target's hit point maximum and current hit points increase by 5 for the duration.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher , a target's hit points increase by an additional 5 for each slot level above 2nd

ALARM
1st-leveI abjuration (ritual)
Casting Time: I minule
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a tiny bell and a piece of
fine silver wire)
Duration: 8 hours
You set an alarm against unwanted intrusion. Choose
a door, a window, or an area within range that is no
larger than a 20-foot cube. Until the spell ends, an alarm
alerts you whenever a Tiny or larger creature touches
or enters the warded area. When you cast the spell, you
can designate creatures that won't set off the alarm. You
also choose whether the alarm is mental or audible.
A mental alarm alerts you with a ping in your mind
if you are within 1 mile of the warded area. This ping
awakens you if you are sleeping.
An audible alarm produces the sound of a hand bell
for 10 seconds within 60 feet.

ALTER SELF
2nd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You assume a different form. When you cast the spell,
choose one of the following options, the effects of which
last for the duration of the spell. While the spell lasts,
you can end one option as an action to gain the benefits
of a different one.
Aquatic Adaptation. You adapt your body to an
aqualic environmenl, sprouting gills and growing
webbing belween your fingers. Voucan brealhe
underwater and gain a swimming speed equal to your
walking speed.
Change Appearance. You transform your appearance.
You decide what you look like, including your height,
weight, facial features, sound of your voice, hair length,
coloration, and distinguishing characteristics, if any.
You can make yourself appear as a member of another
race, though none of your statistics change. You also
can't appear as a creature of a different size than you,
and your basic shape stays the same; if you're bipedal,
you can't use this spell to become quadrupedal, for
instance. At any time for the duration of the spell, you
can use your action to change your appearance in
this way again.
Natural Weapons. You grow claws, fangs, spines,
horns, or a different natural weapon of your choice. Your
unarmed strikes deal 1d6 bludgeoning, piercing, or
slashing damage, as appropriate to the natural weapon
you chose, and you are proficient with your unarmed
strikes. Finally, the natural weapon is magic and you
have a +1 bonus to the attack and damage rolls you
make using it.

ANIMAL FRIENDSHIP
1st-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a morsel of food)
Duration: 24 hours
This spell lets you convince a beast that you mean it no
It must see and hear you. If the beast's Intelligence is
4 or higher, the spell fails. Otherwise, the beast must
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be charmed
by you for the spell's duration. If you or one of your
companions harms the target, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can affect one
additional beast for each slot level above 1st.

ANIMAL MESSENGER
2nd-level enchantment (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a morsel of food)
Duration: 24 hours
By means of this spell, you use an animal to deliver a
message. Choose a Tiny beast you can see within range,
such as a squirrel, a blue jay, or a bat. You specify a
location, which you must have visited, and a recipient
who matches a general description, such as "a man or
woman dressed in the uniform of the town guard" or "a
red-haired dwarf wearing a pointed hat." You also speak
a message of up to twenty-five words. The target beast
travels for the duration of the spell toward the specified
location, covering about 50 miles per 24 hours for a
flying messenger, or 25 miles for other animals.
When the messenger arrives, it delivers your message
to the creature that you described, replicating the sound
of your voice. The messenger speaks only to a creature
malching lhe descriplion you gave. If lhe messenger
doesn't reach its destination before the spell ends, the
message is lost, and the beast makes its way back to
where you cast this spell.
At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell using a spell
slot of 3rd level or higher, the duration of the spell
increases by 48 hours for each slot level above 2nd.

ANIMAL SHAPES
8th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 24 hours
Your magic turns others into beasts. Choose any
number of willing creatures that you can see within
range. You transform each target into the form of a
Large or smaller beast with a challenge rating of 4 or
lower. On subsequent turns, you can use your action to
transform affected creatures into new forms.
The transformation lasts for the duration for each
target, or until the target drops to 0 hit points or dies.
You can choose a different form for each target. A
target's game statistics are replaced by the statistics of
the chosen beast, though the target retains its alignment
and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores. The
target assumes the hit points of its new form, and when
it reverts to its normal form, it returns to the number
of hit points it had before it transformed. If it reverts as
a result of dropping to 0 hit points, any excess damage
carries over to its normal form. As long as the excess
damage doesn't reduce the creature's normal form to 0
hit points, it isn't knocked unconscious. The creature is
limited in the actions it can perform by the nature of its
new form, and it can't speak or cast spells.
The target's gear melds into the new form. The target
can't activate, wield, or otherwise benefit from any of
its equipment.

ANIMATE DEAD
3rd-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of blood, a piece of flesh,
and a pinch of bone dust)
Duration: Instantaneous
This spell creates an undead servant. Choose a pile
of bones or a corpse of a Medium or Small humanoid
within range. Your spell imbues the target with a foul
mimicry of life, raising it as an undead creature. The
target becomes a skeleton if you chose bones or a
zombie if you chose a corpse (the DM has the creature's
game statistics).
On each of your turns, you can use a bonus action
to mentally command any creature you made with
this spell if the creature is within 60 feet of you (if you
control multiple creatures, you can command any or all
of them at the same time, issuing the same command to
each one). You decide what action the creature will take
and where it will move during its next turn, or you can
issue a general command, such as to guard a particular
chamber or corridor. If you issue no commands, the
creature only defends itself against hostile creatures.
Once given an order, the creature continues to follow it
until its task is complete.
The creature is under your control for 24 hours,
after which it stops obeying any command you've given
it. To maintain control of the creature for another
24 hours, you must cast this spell on the creature
again before the current 24-hour period ends. This
use of the spell reasserts your control over up to four
creatures you have animated with this spell, rather than
animating a new one.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th level or higher, you animate or reassert
control over two additional undead creatures for each
slot level above 3rd. Each of the creatures must come
from a different corpse or pile of bones.

ANIMATE OBJECTS
5th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Objects come to life at your command. Choose up to
ten nonmagical objects within range that are not being
worn or carried. Medium targets count as two objects,
Large targets count as four objects, Huge targets
count as eight objects. You can't animate any object
larger than Huge. Each target animates and becomes a
creature under your control until the spell ends or until
reduced to 0 hit points.
As a bonus action, you can mentally command any
creature you made with this spell if the creature is
within 500 feet of you (if you control multiple creatures,
you can command any or all of them at the same time,
issuing the same command to each one). You decide
what action the creature will take and where it will
move during its next turn, or you can issue a general
command, such as to guard a particular chamber or
corridor. If you issue no commands, the creature only
defends itself against hostile creatures. Once given
an order, the creature continues to follow it until its
task is complete.

ANIMATED OBJECT STATISTICS
Size HP AC Attack
Tiny 20 18 +8 to hit, 1d4 + 4 damage
Small 25 16 +6 to hit, 1d8 + 2 damage
Medium 40 13 +5 to hit, 2d6 + 1 damage
Huge 80 10 +8 to hit, 2d12 + 4 damage
An animated object is a construct with AC, hit points, attacks, Strength, and Dexterity determined by its size. Its Constitution is 10 and its Intelligence and Wisdom are 3, and its Charisma is 1. Its speed is 30 feet; if the object lacks legs or other appendages it can use for locomotion, it has a flying speed of 30 feet and can hover. If the object is securely attached to a surface or a larger object, such as a chain bolted to a wall, its speed is 0. It has blindsight with a radius of 30 feet and is blind beyond that distance. When the animated object drops to 0 hit points, it reverts to its original object form, and any damage resulting from the attack is carried over to its original object form.
locomotion, it instead has a f1yingspeed of 30 feet and
can hover. lf the object is securely attached to a surface
or a larger object, sue h as a chain bolted to a wall, its
speed is O. It has blindsight with a radius of 30 feet and
is b\ind beyond that distance. When the animated object
drops to Ohit points, it reverts to its original object
form, and any remaining damage carries over to its
original object form.
If you command an object to attack, it can make a
single melee attack against a creature within 5 feet
of it. It makes a slam attack with an attack bonus and
bludgeoning damage determined by its size. The DM
might rule that a specific object inflicts slashing or
piercing damage based on its form.
At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th level or higher, you can animate two
additional objects for each slot level above 5th.

ANTILIFE SHELL
5th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (10-foot radius)
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
A shimmering barrier extends out from you in a 10-foot
radius and moves with you, remaining centered on
you and hedging out creatures other than undead and
The barrier prevents an affected creature from
passing or reaching through. An affected creature
can cast spells or make attacks with ranged or reach
weapons through the barrier.
If you move so that an affected creature is forced to
pass through the barrier, the spell ends.

ANTIMAGIC FIELD
8th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (10-foot-radius sphere)
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of powdered iron or
iron filings)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
A 10-foot-radius invisible sphere of antimagic surrounds
you. This area is divorced from the magical energy that
suffuses the multiverse. Within the sphere, spells can't
be cast, summoned creatures disappear, and even magic
items become mundane. Until the spell ends, the sphere
moves with you, centered on you.
Spells and other magical effects, except those created
by an artifact or a deity, are suppressed in the sphere
and can't protrude into it. A slot expended to cast
a suppressed spell is consumed. While an effect is
suppressed, it doesn't function, but the time it spends
suppressed counts against its duration.
Targeted Effects. Spells and other magical effects,
such as magic missile and charm person, that target
a creature or an object in the sphere have no effect
on that target.
Areas of Magic. The area of another spell or magical
effect, such as fireball, can't extend into the sphere.
If the sphere overlaps an area of magic, the part of
the area that is covered by the sphere is suppressed.
For example, the flames created by a wall of fire are
suppressed within the sphere, creating a gap in the wall
if the overlap is large enough.
Spells. Any active spell or other magical effect on a
creature or an object in the sphere is suppressed while
creature or object in the sphere is suppressed while
the creature or object is in it.
Magic Items. The properties and powers of
magic items are suppressed in the sphere. For
example, a +1 longsword in the sphere functions as a
nonmagical longsword.
A magic weapon's properties and powers are
suppressed if it is used against a target in the sphere or
wielded by an attacker in the sphere. If a magic weapon
or a piece of magic ammunition fully leaves the sphere
spear at a target outside the sphere), the magic of the
item ceases to be suppressed as soon as it exits.
Magical Travel. Teleportation and planar travel
fail to work in the sphere, whether the sphere is the
destination or the departure point for such magical
travel. A portal to another location, world, or plane of
existence, as well as an opening to an extradimensional
space such as that created by the rope trick spell,
temporarily closes while in the sphere.
Creatures and Objeets. Acreature or object
summoned or created by magic temporarily winks out
of existence in the sphere. Such a creature instantly
reappears once the space the creature occupied is no
longer within the sphere.
Dispel Magic. Spells and magical effects such as
dispel magic have no effect on the sphere. Likewise, the
spheres created by different antimagic field spells don't
nullify each other.

ANTIPATHY/SYMPATHY
8th-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (either a lump of alum soaked in
vinegar for the antipathy effect or a drop of honey for
the sympathy effect)
Duration: 10 days
This spell attracts or repels creatures of your choice.
You target something within range, either a Huge or
smaller object or creature or an area that is no larger
than a 200-foot cube. Then specify a kind of intelligent
creature, such as red dragons, goblins, or vampires.
You invest the target with an aura that either attracts or
repels the specified creatures for the duration. Choose
antipathy or sympathy as the aura's effect.
Antipathy. The enchantment causes creatures of the
kind you designated to feel an intense urge to leave the
area and avoid the target. When such a creature can
see the target or comes within 60 feet of it, the creature
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become
frightened. The creature remains frightened while it can
see the target or is within 60 feet of it. While frightened
by the target, the creature must use its movement to
move to the nearest safe spot from which it can't see
the target. If the creature moves more than 60 feet from
the target and can't see it, the creature is no longer
frightened, but the creature becomes frightened again if
it regains sight of the target or moves within 60 feet of it.
Sympathy. The enchantment causes the specified
creatures to feel an intense urge to approach the target
while within 60 feet of it or able to see it. When such a
creature can see the target or comes within 60 feet of it,
the creature must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or
use its movement on each of its turns to enter the area
or move within reach of the target. When the creature
has done so, it can't willingly move away from the target.
If the target damages or otherwise harms an affected
creature, the affected creature can make a Wisdom
saving throw to end the effect, as described below.
Ending the Effect. If an affected creature ends its
turn while not within 60 feet of the target or able to see
it, the creature makes a Wisdom saving throw. On a
successful save, the creature is no longer affected by
the target and recognizes the feeling of repugnance or
attraction as magical. In addition, a creature affected by
the spell is allowed another Wisdom saving throw every
24 hours while the spell persists.
A creature that successfully saves against this effect
is immune to it for 1 minute, after which time it can be
affected again.

ARCANE EYE
4th-level divination
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of bat fur)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You create an invisible, magical eye within range that
hovers in the air for the duration.
You mentally receive visual information from the eye,
The eye can look in every direction.
As an action, you can move the eye up to 30 feet in
any direction. There is no limit to how far away from
you the eye can move, but it can't enter another plane
of existence. A solid barrier blocks the eye's movement,
but the eye can pass through an opening as small as 1
inch in diameter.

ARCANE GATE
6th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 500 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create linked teleportation portals that remain open
for the duration. Choose two points on the ground that
you can see, one point within 10 feet of you and one
point within 500 feet of you. A circular portal, 10 feet
in diameter, opens over each point. If the portal would
open in the space occupied by a creature, the spell fails,
and the casting is lost.
The portals are two-dimensional glowing rings
filled with mist, hovering inches from the ground and
perpendicular to it at the points you choose. A ring is
visible only from one side (your choice), which is the side
that functions as a portal.
Any creature or object entering the portal exits from
the other portal as if the two were adjacent to each
other; passing through a portal from the nonportal side
has no effect. The mist that fills each portal is opaque
and blocks vision through it. On your turn, you can
rotate the rings as a bonus action so that the active side
faces in a different direction.

ARCANE LOCK
2nd-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (gold dust worth at least 25 gp,
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
You touch a closed door, window, gate, chest, or other
entryway, and it becomes locked for the duration. You
and the creatures you designate when you cast this
spell can open the object normally. You can also set a
password that, when spoken within 5 feet of the object,
suppresses this spell for 1 minute. Otherwise, it is
impassable until it is broken or the spell is dispelled or
suppressed. Casting knock on the object suppresses
arcane lock for 10 minutes.
While affected by this spell, the object is more difficult
to break or force open; the DC to break it or pick any
locks on it increases by 10.

ARMOR OF AGATHYS
1st-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a cup of water)
Duration: 1 hour
as a spectral frost that covers you and your gear.
You gain 5 temporary hit points for the duration. If a
creature hits you with a melee attack while you have
these hit points, the creature takes 5 cold damage.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, both the temporary hit
points and the cold damage increase by 5 for each slot
level above 1st.

ARMS OF HADAR
1st-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (10-foot radius)
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You invoke the power of Hadar, the Dark Hunger.
Tendrils of dark energy erupt from you and batter all
creatures within 10 feet of you. Each creature in that
area must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed
save, a target takes 2d6 necrotic damage and can't take
reactions until its next turn. On a successful save, the
creature takes half damage, but suffers no other effect.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by
1d6 for each slot level above 1st.

ASTRAL PROJECTION
9th-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (for each creature you affect with
this spell, you must provide one jacinth worth at least
1,000 gp and one ornately carved bar of silver worth
at least 100 gp, all of which the spell consumes)
Duration: Special
You and up to eight willing creatures within range
project your astral bodies into the Astral Plane (the
spell fails and the casting is wasted if you are already
on that plane). The material body you leave behind is
unconscious and in a state of suspended animation; it
doesn't need food or air and doesn't age.
Your astral body resembles your mortal form in
almost every way, replicating your game statistics and
possessions. The principal difference is the addition of
a silvery cord that extends from between your shoulder
blades and trails behind you, fading to invisibility after
1 foot. This cord is your tether to your material body. As
long as the tether remains intact, you can find your way
home. If the cord is cut-something that can happen
only when an effect specifically states that it does-your
soul and body are separated, killing you instantly.
Your astral form can freely travel through the Astral
Plane and can pass through portals there leading to any
other plane. If you enter a new plane or return to the
plane you were on when casting this spell, your body and
possessions are transported along the silver cord, allowing
you to re-enter your body as you enter the new plane.
Your astral form is a separate incarnation. Any damage
or other effects that apply to it have no effect on your
physical body, nor do they persist when you return to it.
The spell ends for you and your companions when
you use your action to dismiss it. When the spell ends,
the affected creature returns to its physical body,
and it awakens.
The spell might also end early for you or one of your
companions. A successful dispel magic spell used
against an astral or physical body ends the spell for that
creature. If a creature's original body or its astral form
drops to 0 hit points, the spell ends for that creature. If
the spell ends and the silver cord is intact, the cord pulls
the creature's astral form back to its body, ending its
state of suspended animation.
If you are returned to your body prematurely, your
companions remain in their astral forms and must find
their own way back to their bodies, usually by dropping
to 0 hit points.

AUGURY
2nd-level divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (specially marked sticks, bones,
or similar tokens worth at least 25 gp)
Duration: Instantaneous
By casting gem-inlaid sticks, rolling dragon bones,
laying out ornate cards, or employing some other
divining tool, you receive an omen from an otherworldly
entity about the results of a specific course of action that
you plan to take within the next 30 minutes. The DM
chooses from the following possible omens:
chooses from the following possible omens:
* Weal, for good results
* Woe, for bad results
* Weal and woe, for both good and bad results
* Nothing, for results that aren't especially good or bad
The spell doesn't take into account any possible
circumstances that might change the outcome, such
as the casting of additional spells or the loss or gain
of a companion.
If you cast the spell two or more times before
percent chance for each casting after the first that you
get a random reading. The DM makes this roll in secret.

AURA OF LIFE
4th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Life-preserving energy radiates from you in an aura with
a 30-foot radius. Until the spell ends, the aura moves
with you, centered on you. Each nonhostile creature
in the aura (including you) has resistance to necrotic
damage, and its hit point maximum can't be reduced. In
addition, a nonhostile, living creature regains 1 hit point
when it starts its turn in the aura with 0 hit points.

AURA OF PURITY
4th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Purifying energy radiates from you in an aura with a
30-foot radius. Until the spell ends, the aura moves
with you, centered on you. Each nonhostile creature
in the aura (including you) can't become diseased,
has resistance to poison damage, and has advantage
on saving throws against effects that cause any of the
following conditions: blinded, charmed, deafened,
frightened, paralyzed, poisoned, and stunned.
frightened, paralyzed, poisoned, and stunned.

AURA OF VITALITY
3rd-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Healing energy radiates from you in an aura with a
30-foot radius. Until the spell ends, the aura moves with
2d6 hit points.

AWAKEN
5th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 8 hours
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (an agate worth at least 1,000 gp,
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
After spending the casting time tracing magical
After spending the casting time tracing magical
pathways within a precious gemstone, you touch a Huge
or smaller beast or plant. The target must have either
no Intelligence score or an Intelligence of 3 or less. The
target gains an Intelligence of 10. The target also gains
the ability to speak one language you know. If the target
is a plant, it gains the ability to move its limbs, roots,
vines, creepers, and so forth, and it gains senses similar
to a human's. Your DM chooses statistics appropriate
for the awakened plant, such as the statistics for the
The awakened beast or plant is charmed by you for
30 days or until you or your companions do anything
harmful to it. When the charmed condition ends,
the awakened creature chooses whether to remain
friendly to you, based on how you treated it while
it was charmed.

BANE
1st-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of blood)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Up to three creatures of your choice that you can see
within range must make Charisma saving throws.
Whenever a target that fails this saving throw makes
an attack roll or a saving throw before the spell ends,
the target must roll a d4 and subtract the number rolled
from the attack roll or saving throw.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot level above 1st.

BANISHING SMITE
5th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
The next time you hit a creature with a weapon attack
and the attack deals an extra 5d10 force damage to the
target. Additionally, if this attack reduces the target
to 50 hit points or fewer, you banish it. If the target is
native to a different plane of existence than the one
you're on, the target disappears, returning to its home
plane. If the target is native to the plane you're on, the
creature vanishes into a harmless demiplane. While
there, the target is incapacitated. It remains there until
the spell ends, at which point the target reappears in the
space it left or in the nearest unoccupied space if that
space it left or in the nearest unoccupied space if that
space is occupied.

BEAST SENSE
2nd-level divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You touch a willing beast. For the duration of the spell,
and hear what it hears, and continue to do so until
you use your action to return to your normal senses.
While perceiving through the beast's senses, you
gain the benefits of any special senses possessed by
that beast, though you are blinded and deafened to your
own surroundings.

BARKSKIN
2nd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a handful of oak bark)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You touch a willing creature. Until the spell ends, the
target's skin has a rough, bark-like appearance, and the
target's AC can't be less than 16, regardless of what kind
of armor it is wearing.

BEACON OF HOPE
3rd-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
This spell bestows hope and vitality. Choose any
number of creatures within range. For the duration,
each target has advantage on Wisdom saving throws
and death saving throws, and regains the maximum
number of hit points possible from any healing.


BANISHMENT
4th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (an item distasteful to the target)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You attempt to send one creature that you can see
within range to another plane of existence. The
target must succeed on a Charisma saving throw
or be banished.
If the target is native to the plane of existence you're
on, you banish the target to a harmless demiplane.
While there, the target is incapacitated. The target
remains there until the spell ends, at which point the
target reappears in the space it left or in the nearest
unoccupied space if that space is occupied.
If the target is native to a different plane of existence
than the one you're on, the target is banished with
a faint popping noise, returning to its home plane.
If the spell ends before 1 minute has passed, the
target reappears in the space it left or in the nearest
unoccupied space if that space is occupied. Otherwise,
the target doesn't return.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 5th level or higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot level above 4th.
own surroundings,
BESTOW CURSE
3rd-/evel nccromancy
BESTOW CURSE
3rd-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch a creature, and that creature must succeed
on a Wisdom saving throw or become cursed for the
duration of the spell. When you cast this spell, choose
the nature of the curse from the following options:
made with that ability score.
* While cursed, the target has disadvantage on attack
rolls against you.
* While cursed, the target must make a Wisdom saving
throw at the start of each of its turns. If it fails, it
wastes its action that turn doing nothing.
* While the target is cursed, your attacks and spells
deal an extra 1d8 necrotic damage to the target.
Aremove curse spell ends this effect. At the DM's
option, you may choose an alternative curse effect, but
A remove curse spell ends this effect. At the DM's option,
you may choose an alternative curse effect, but it should
be no more powerful than those described above. The
DM has final say on such a curse's effect.
At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell using a spell
slot of 4th level or higher, the duration is concentration,
up to 10 minutes. If you use a spell slot of 5th level or
higher, the duration is 8 hours. If you use a spell slot of
7th level or higher, the duration is 24 hours. If you use
a 9th level spell slot, the spell lasts until it is dispelled.

BIGBY'S HAND
5th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (an eggshell and a
snakeskin glove)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a Large hand of shimmering, translucent
force in an unoccupied space that you can see within
force in an unoccupied space that you can see within
range. The hand lasts for the spell's duration, and it
moves at your command, mimicking the movements of
your own hand.
The hand is an object that has AC 20 and hit points
equal to your hit point maximum. If it drops to 0 hit
points, the spell ends. It has a Strength of 26 (+8) and a
Dexterity of 10 (+0). The hand doesn't fill its space.
When you cast the spell and as a bonus action on your
subsequent turns, you can move the hand up to 60 feet
Clenched Fist. The hand strikes one creature or
object within 5 feet of it. Make a melee spell attack for
the hand using your game statistics. On a hit, the target
takes 4d8 force damage.
Forceful Hand. The hand attempts to push a creature
within 5 feet of it in a direction you choose. Make
a check with the hand's Strength contested by the
Strength (Athletics) check of the target. If the target is
Medium or smaller, you have advantage on the check. If
you succeed, the hand pushes the target up to 5 feet plus
you succeed, the hand pushes the target up to 5 feet plus
a number of feet equal to five times your spellcasting
ability modifier. The hand moves with the target to
remain within 5 feet of it.
Grasping Hand. The hand attempts to grapple a Huge
or smaller creature within 5 feet of it. You use the hand's
Strength score to resolve the grapple. If the target is
Medium or smaller, you have advantage on the check.
While the hand is grappling the target, you can use a
bonus action to have the hand crush it. When you do
your spellcasting ability modifier.
Interposing Hand. The hand interposes itself
between you and a creature you choose until you give
the hand a different command. The hand moves to stay
between you and the target, providing you with half
cover against the target. The target can't move through
the hand's space if its Strength score is less than or
equal to the hand's Strength score. If its Strength score
is higher than the hand's Strength score, the target can
move toward you through the hand's space, but that
move through the hand's space, but that space is
difficult terrain for the target.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th level or higher, the damage from the
clenched fist option increases by 2d8 and the damage
from the grasping hand increases by 2d6 for each slot
level above 5th.

BLADE BARRIER
6th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create a vertical wall of whirling, razor-sharp blades
made of magical energy. The wall appears within range
and lasts for the duration. You can make a straight wall
up to 100 feet long, 20 feet high, and 5 feet thick, or a
ringed wall up to 60 feet in diameter, 20 feet high, and
5 feet thick. The wall provides three-quarters cover to
creatures behind it, and its space is difficult terrain.
When a creature enters the wall's area for the first
time on a turn or starts its turn there, the creature must
make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the
creature takes 6d10 slashing damage. On a successful
save, the creature takes half as much damage.

BLADE WARD
Abjuration cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
You extend your hand and trace a sigil of warding in the
air. Until the end of your next turn, you have resistance
against bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage
dealt by weapon attacks.

BLESS
1st-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a sprinkling of holy water)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You bless up to three creatures of your choice within
range. Whenever a target makes an attack roll or a
saving throw before the spell ends, the target can roll
a d4 and add the number rolled to the attack roll or
saving throw.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot level above 1st.

BLIGHT
4th-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Necromantic energy washes over a creature of your
and vitality from it. The target must make a Constitution
saving throw. The target takes 8d8 necrotic damage on
a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful
one. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.
If you target a plant creature or a magical plant, it
makes the saving throw with disadvantage, and the spell
deals maximum damage to it.
If you target a nonmagical plant that isn't a creature,
such as a tree or shrub, it doesn't make a saving throw;
it simply withers and dies.
it simply withers and dies.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 5th level or higher, the damage increases by
1d8 for each slot level above 4th.

BLINDING SMITE
3rd-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
attack during this spell's duration, your weapon flares
with bright light, and the attack deals an extra 3d8
radiant damage to the target. Additionally, the target
must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or be
blinded until the spell ends.
A creature blinded by this spell makes another
Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns.
On a successful save, it is no longer blinded.
BLINDNESS/DEAFNESS
BLINDNESS/DEAFNESS
2nd-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: 1 minute
You can blind or deafen a foe. Choose one creature that
you can see within range to make a Constitution saving
throw. If it fails, the target is either blinded or deafened
(your choice) for the duration. At the end of each of its
On a success, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot level above 2nd.

BLINK
3rd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute
Roll a d20 at the end of each of your turns for the
duration of the spell. On a roll of 11 or higher, you
vanish from your current plane of existence and appear
in the Ethereal Plane (the spell fails and the casting is
wasted if you were already on that plane). At the start of
your next turn, and when the spell ends if you are on the
Ethereal Plane, you return to an unoccupied space of
your choice that you can see within 10 feet of the space
you vanished from. If no unoccupied space is available
within that range, you appear in the nearest unoccupied
space (chosen at random if more than one space is
equally near). You can dismiss this spell as an action.
While on the Ethereal Plane, you can see and hear
the plane you originated from, which is cast in shades
of gray, and you can't see anything there more than 60
feet away. You can only affect and be affected by other
creatures on the Ethereal Plane. Creatures that aren't
there can't perceive you or interact with you, unless they
have the ability to do so.

BLUR
2nd-level illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your body becomes blurred, shifting and wavering to
all who can see you. For the duration, any creature has
disadvantage on attack rolls against you. An attacker
as with blindsight, or can see through illusions, as
with truesight.

BRANDING SMITE
2nd-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
The next time you hit a creature with a weapon attack
before this spell ends, the weapon gleams with astral
radiance as you strike. The attack deals an extra 2d6
radiant damage to the target, which becomes visible if
it's invisible, and the target sheds dim light in a 5-foot
radius and can't become invisible until the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the extra damage
increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.

BURNING HANDS
1st-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (15-foot cone)
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
As you hold your hands with thumbs touching and
fingers spread, a thin sheet of flames shoots forth from
your outstretched fingertips. Each creature in a 15-foot
cone must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature
takes 3d6 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one.
The fire ignites any flammable objects in the area that
aren't being worn or carried.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by
1d6 for each slot level above 1st.

CALL LIGHTNING
3rd-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
A storm cloud appears in the shape of a cylinder that
is 10 feet tall with a 60-foot radius, centered on a point
you can see 100 feet directly above you. The spell fails
if you can't see a point in the air where the storm cloud
could appear (for example, if you are in a room that can't
accommodate the cloud).
When you cast the spell, choose a point you can see
within range. A bolt of lightning flashes down from the
cloud to that point. Each creature within 5 feet of that
point must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature
takes 3d10 lightning damage on a failed save, or half
as much damage on a successful one. On each of your
turns until the spell ends, you can use your action to call
down lightning in this way again, targeting the same
point or a different one.
If you are outdoors in stormy conditions when you
cast this spell, the spell gives you control over the
existing storm instead of creating a new one. Under
such conditions, the spell's damage increases by 1d10.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th or higher level, the damage increases by
1d10 for each slot level above 3rd.

CALM EMOTIONS
2nd-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You attempt to suppress strong emotions in a group
of people. Each humanoid in a 20-foot-radius sphere
centered on a point you choose within range must make
a Charisma saving throw; a creature can choose to
fail this saving throw if it wishes. If a creature fails its
saving throw, choose one of the following two effects.
You can suppress any effect causing a target to be
charmed or frightened. When this spell ends, any
suppressed effect resumes, provided that its duration
has not expired in the meantime.
Alternatively, you can make a target indifferent about
creatures of your choice that it is hostile toward. This
indifference ends if the target is attacked or harmed by
a spell or if it witnesses any of its friends being harmed.
When the spell ends, the creature becomes hostile
again, unless the DM rules otherwise.

CHAIN LIGHTNING
6th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fur; a piece of amber,
glass, or a crystal rod; and three silver pins)
Duration: Instantaneous
You create a bolt of lightning that arcs toward a target of
your choice that you can see within range. Three bolts
then leap from that target to as many as three other
targets, each of which must be within 30 feet of the first
target. A target can be a creature or an object and can
be targeted by only one of the bolts.
A target must make a Dexterity saving throw. The
target takes 10d8 lightning damage on a failed save, or
half as much damage on a successful one.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th level or higher, one additional bolt
leaps from the first target to another target for each slot
level above 6th.

CHARM PERSON
1st-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour
You attempt to charm a humanoid you can see within
range. It must make a Wisdom saving throw, and does
so with advantage if you or your companions are fighting
it. If it fails the saving throw, it is charmed by you until
the spell ends or until you or your companions do
anything harmful to it. The charmed creature regards
you as a friendly acquaintance. When the spell ends, the
creature knows it was charmed by you.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot level above 1st. The
creatures must be within 30 feet of each other when
you target them.

CHILL TOUCH
Necromancy cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
You create a ghostly, skeletal hand in the space of a
creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack
against the creature to assail it with the chill of the
grave. On a hit, the target takes 1d8 necrotic damage.
and it can't regain hit points until the start of your next
turn. Until then, the hand clings to the target.
If you hit an undead target, it also has disadvantage on
attack rolls against you until the end of your next turn.
This spell's damage increases by 1d8 when you reach
5th level (2d8), 11th level (3d8), and 17th level (4d8).

CHROMATIC ORB
1st-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth at least 50 gp)
Duration: Instantaneous
You hurl a 4-inch-diameter sphere of energy at a
creature that you can see within range. You choose
acid, cold, fire, lightning, poison, or thunder for the type
of orb you create, and then make a ranged spell attack
against the target. If the attack hits, the creature takes
3d8 damage of the type you chose.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by
1d8 for each slot level above 1st.

CIRCLE OF DEATH
6th-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (the powder of a crushed black
pearl worth at least 500 gp)
Duration: Instantaneous
A sphere of negative energy ripples out in a 60-foot-radius
sphere from a point within range. Each creature
in that area must make a Constitution saving throw. A
target takes 8d6 necrotic damage on a failed save, or
half as much damage on a successful one.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 7th level or higher, the damage increases by
2d6 for each slot level above 6th.

CIRCLE OF POWER
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Divine energy radiates from you, distorting and
diffusing magical energy within 30 feet of you. Until
the spell ends, the sphere moves with you, centered on
you. For the duration, each friendly creature in the area
(including you) has advantage on saving throws against
spells and other magical effects. Additionally, when
spells and other magical effects. Additionally, when
an affected creature succeeds on a saving throw made
against a spell or magical effect that allows it to make a
saving throw to take only half damage, it instead takes
no damage if it succeeds on the saving throw.

CLAIRVOYANCE
3rd-level divination
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 1 mile
Components: V, S, M (a focus worth at least 100
gp, either a jeweled horn for hearing or a glass
eye for seeing)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create an invisible sensor within range in a location
familiar to you (a place you have visited or seen before)
or in an obvious location that is unfamiliar to you (such
as behind a door, around a corner, or in a grove of trees).
The sensor remains in place for the duration, and it
can't be attacked or otherwise interacted with.
When you cast the spell, you choose seeing or
hearing. You can use the chosen sense through the
sensor as if you were in its space. As your action, you
can switch between seeing and hearing.
A creature that can see the sensor (such as a creature
benefiting from see invisibility or truesight) sees a
luminous, intangible orb about the size of your fist.

CLONE
8th-level necromancy
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a diamond worth at least 1,000
gp and at least 1 cubic inch of flesh of the creature
that is to be cloned, which the spell consumes, and a
vessel worth at least 2,000 gp that has a sealable lid
and is large enough to hold a Medium creature, such
as a huge urn, coffin, mud-filled cyst in the ground, or
crystal container filled with salt water)
Duration: Instantaneous
This spell grows an inert duplicate of a living creature
This spell grows an inert duplicate of a living creature
as a safeguard against death. This clone forms inside
a sealed vessel and grows to full size and maturity
after 120 days; you can also choose to have the clone
be a younger version of the same creature. It remains
inert and endures indefinitely, as long as its vessel
remains undisturbed.
At any time after the clone matures, if the original
creature dies, its soul transfers to the clone, provided
that the soul is free and willing to return. The clone is
physically identical to the original and has the same
personality, memories, and abilities, but none of the
original's equipment. The original creature's physical
remains, if they still exist, become inert and can't
thereafter be restored to life, since the creature's soul
is elsewhere.

CLOUD OF DAGGERS
2nd-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a sliver of glass)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You fill the air with spinning daggers in a cube 5 feet on
each side, centered on a point you choose within range.
A creature takes 4d4 slashing damage when it enters
the spell's area for the first time on a turn or starts
its turn there.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by
2d4 for each slot level above 2nd.

CLOUDKILL
5th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You create a 20-foot-radius sphere of poisonous, yellowgreen
fog centered on a point you choose within range.
or until strong wind disperses the fog, ending the spell.
Its area is heavily obscured.
When a creature enters the spell's area for the first
time on a turn or starts its turn there, that creature must
make a Constitution saving throw. The creature takes
5d8 poison damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one. Creatures are affected
even if they hold their breath or don't need to breathe.
The fog moves 10 feet away from you at the start
of each of your turns, rolling along the surface of the
ground. The vapors, being heavier than air, sink to the
lowest level of the land, even pouring down openings.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th level or higher, the damage increases by
1d8 for each slot level above 5th.

COLOR SPRAY
1st-level illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (15-foot cone)
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of powder or sand that is
colored red, yellow, and blue)
Duration: 1 round
A dazzling array of flashing, colored light springs from
your hand. Roll 6d10; the total is how many hit points
of creatures this spell can affect. Creatures in a 15-foot
cone originating from you are affected in ascending
order of their current hit points (ignoring unconscious
creatures and creatures that can't see).
Starting with the creature that has the lowest current
hit points, each creature affected by this spell is blinded
until the spell ends. Subtract each creature's hit points
from the total before moving on to the creature with
the next lowest hit points. A creature's hit points must
be equal to or less than the remaining total for that
creature to be affected.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, roll an additional 2d10
for each slot level above 1st.

COMMAND
1st-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: 1 round
You speak a one-word command to a creature you can
see within range. The target must succeed on a Wisdom
saving throw or follow the command on its next turn.
doesn't understand your language, or if your command
is directly harmful to it.
Some typical commands and their effects follow. You
might issue a command other than one described here.
If you do so, the DM determines how the target behaves.
If the target can't follow your command, the spell ends.
* Approach. The target moves toward you by the
shortest and most direct route, ending its turn if it
moves within 5 feet of you.
Drop. The target drops whatever it is holding and then
* Drop. The target drops whatever it is holding and then
ends its turn.
* Flee. The target spends its turn moving away from
you by the fastest available means.
* Grovel. The target falls prone and then ends its turn.
* Halt. The target doesn't move and takes no actions.
A flying creature stays aloft, provided that it is able to
do so. If it must move to stay aloft, it flies the minimum
distance needed to remain in the air.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
additional creature for each slot level above 1st. The
creatures must be within 30 feet of each other when
you target them.

COMMUNE
5th-level divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (incense and a vial of holy or
unholy water)
Duration: 1 minute
You contact your deity or a divine proxy and ask up to
three questions that can be answered with a yes or no.
You must ask your questions before the spell ends. You
receive a correct answer for each question.
Divine beings aren't necessarily omniscient, so you
might receive "unclear" as an answer if a question
pertains to information that lies beyond the deity's
knowledge. In a case where a one-word answer could be
misleading or contrary to the deity's interests, the DM
might offer a short phrase as an answer instead.
If you cast the spell two or more times before finishing
your next long rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent
chance for each casting after the first that you get no
answer. The DM makes this roll in secret.

COMMUNE WITH NATURE
5th-level divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Self
Components: V, 5
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou briefty become one with nature and gain knowledge
of the surrounding territory. In the outdoors, the spell
gives you knowledge of the land within 3 miles of you.
In caves and other natural underground settings, the
radius is Iimited to 300 feet. The spell doesn't function
where nature has been replaced by construction, such
as in dungeons and towns.
Vou instantly gain knowledge of up to three facts of
your choice about any of the following subjects as they
relate to the area:
terrain and bodies of water
prevalent plants, minerais, animais, or peoples
powerful celestiaIs, fey, fiends, elementals, or undead
influence from other planes of existence
buildings
For example, you could determine the location of
powerful undead in the area, the location of major
sources of safe drinking water, and the location of any
nearby towns.
COMPELLED DUEL
1st-levei enchantment
Casting Time: I bonus act ion
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
Vou attempt to compel a creature into a dueI. One
creature that you can see within range must make a
Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is
drawn to you, compelled by your divine demando For
the duration, it has disadvantage on attack rolls against
creatures other than you, and must make a Wisdom
saving throw each time it attempts to move to a space
that is more than 30 feet away from you; if it succeeds
on this saving throw, this spell doesn't restrict the
target's movement for that turno
The spell ends if you attack any other creature, if you
cast a spell that targets a hostile creature other than the
target, if a creature friendly to you damages the target or
casts a harmful spell on it, or ifyou end your turn more
than 30 feet away from the target.

COMPREHEND LANGUAGES
1st-level divination (ritual) Casting Time: 1 action Range: Self Components: V, S, M(a pinch of soot and salt) Duration: 1 hour For the duration, you understand the literal meaning of  any spoken language that you hear. You also understand any written language that you see, but you must be  touching the surface on which the words are written. It takes about 1 minute to read one page of text.
This spell doesn't decode secret messages in a text or a glyph, such as an arcane sigil, that isn't part of a written language.


COMPULSION
4th-level enchantment Casting Time: 1 action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute Creatures of your choice that you can see within range and that can hear you must make a Wisdom saving  throw. A target automatically succeeds on this saving  throw if it can't be charmed. On a failed save, a target  is affected by this spell. Until the spell ends, you can use a bonus action on each of your turns to designate a  direction that is horizontal to you. Each affected target must use as much of its movement as possible to move  in that direction on its next turn. It can take its action  before it moves. After moving in this way, it can make another Wisdom saving to try to end the effect. A target isn't compelled to move into an obviously deadly hazard, such as a fire or pit, but it will provoke opportunity attacks to move in the designated direction.

CONE OF COLD
5th-level evocation Casting Time: 1 action Range: Self (60-foot cone) Components: V, S, M (a small crystal or glass cone) Duration: Instantaneous A blast of cold air erupts from your hands. Each creature in a 60-foot cone must make a Constitution  saving throw. A creature takes 8d8 cold damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A creature killed by this spell becomes a frozen statue until it thaws.  At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the damage increases by 1d8 for each slot level above 5th.





CONFUSION
4th-level enchantment Casting Time: 1 action Range: 90 feet Components: V, S, M (three nut shells) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute This spell assaults and twists creatures' minds, spawning delusions and provoking uncontrolled action. Each creature in a 10-foot-radius sphere centered on a point you choose within range must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw when you cast this spell or be affected by it. An affected target can't take reactions and must roll a d10 at the start of each of its turns to determine its behavior for that turn. d10 Behavior 1 The creature uses all its movement to move in a  random direction. To determine the direction, roll  a d8 and assign a direction to each die face. The creature doesn't take an action this turn. 2-6 The creature doesn't move or take actions this turn. 7-8 The creature uses its action to make a melee attack against a randomly determined creature within its  reach. If there is no creature within its reach, the creature does nothing this turn. 9-10 The creature can act and move normally. At the end of each of its turns, an affected target can  make a Wisdom saving throw. If it succeeds, this effect ends for that target.  At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th level or higher, the radius of the sphere increases by 5 feet for each slot level above 4th.





CONJURE ANIMALS
3rd-level conjuration Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour You summon fey spirits that take the form of beasts and appear in unoccupied spaces that you can see within  range. Choose one of the following options for what appears: One beast of challenge rating 2 or lower Two beasts of challenge rating 1 or lower Four beasts of challenge rating 1/2 or lower Eight beasts of challenge rating 1/4 or lower Each beast is also considered fey, and it disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends. The summoned creatures are friendly to you and your  companions. Roll initiative for the summoned creatures  as a group, which has its own turns. They obey any verbal commands that you issue to them (no action  required by you). If you don't issue any commands to them, they defend themselves from hostile creatures, but otherwise take no actions. The DM has the creatures' statistics.  At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using certain higher-level spell slots, you choose one of the summoning options above, and more creatures appear: twice as many with a 5th-level slot, three times as many with a 7th-level slot, and four times as many with a 9th-level slot.





CONJURE BARRAGE
3rd-level conjuration Casting Time: 1 action Range: Self (60-foot cone) Components: V, S, M(one piece of ammunition or a thrown weapon) Duration: Instantaneous You throw a nonmagical weapon or fire a piece of nonmagical ammunition into the air to create a cone of identical weapons that shoot forward and then  disappear. Each creature in a 60-foot cone must succeed  on a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 3d8 damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a  successful one. The damage type is the same as that of the weapon or ammunition used as a component.





CONJURE CELESTIAL
7th-level conjuration Casting Time: 1 minute Range: 90 feet Components: V, S Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour You summon a celestial of challenge rating 4 or lower, which appears in an unoccupied space that you can see  within range. The celestial disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends. The celestial is friendly to you and your companions  for the duration. Roll initiative for the celestial, which  has its own turns. It obeys any verbal commands that you issue to it (no action required by you), as long as  they don't violate its alignment. If you don't issue any commands to the celestial, it defends itself from hostile creatures but otherwise takes no actions. The DM has the celestial's statistics.  At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 9th-level spell slot, you summon a celestial of challenge rating 5 or lower.





CONJURE ELEMENTAL
5th-level conjuration Casting Time: 1 minute Range: 90 feet Components: V, S, M(burning incense for air, soft clay for earth, sulfur and phosphorus for fire, or water and sand for water) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour  You call forth an elemental servant. Choose an area of air, earth, fire, or water that fills a 10-foot cube within range. An elemental of challenge rating 5 or lower appropriate to the area you chose appears in an unoccupied space  within 10 feet of it. For example, a fire elemental emerges from a bonfire, and an earth elemental rises  up from the ground. The elemental disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends. The elemental is friendly to you and your companions  for the duration. Roll initiative for the elemental, which  has its own turns. It obeys any verbal commands that  you issue to it (no action required by you). If you don't issue any commands to the elemental, it defends itself from hostile creatures but otherwise takes no actions. If your concentration is broken, the elemental doesn't  disappear. Instead, you lose control of the elemental, it becomes hostile toward you and your companions,  and it might attack. An uncontrolled elemental can't be dismissed by you, and it disappears 1 hour after you summoned it. The DM has the elemental's statistics.  At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 6th level or higher, the challenge rating increases by 1 for each slot level above 5th.

CONJURE FEY
6th-level conjuration Casting Time: 1 minute Range: 90 feet Components: V, S Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour You summon a fey creature of challenge rating 6 or lower, or a fey spirit that takes the form of a beast of challenge rating 6 or lower. It appears in an unoccupied space that you can see within range. The fey creature disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends. The fey creature is friendly to you and your companions for the duration. Roll initiative for the creature, which has its own turns. It obeys any verbal commands that you issue to it (no action required by you), as long as they don't violate its alignment. If you don't issue any commands to the fey creature, it defends itself from hostile creatures but otherwise takes no actions. If your concentration is broken, the fey creature doesn't disappear. Instead, you lose control of the fey creature, it becomes hostile toward you and your companions, and it might attack. An uncontrolled fey creature can't be dismissed by you, and it disappears 1 hour after you summoned it. The DM has the fey creature's statistics. At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the challenge rating increases by 1 for each slot level above 6th.

CONJURE MINOR ELEMENTALS
4th-level conjuration Casting Time: 1 minute Range: 90 feet Components: V, S Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour You summon elementals that appear in unoccupied spaces that you can see within range. You choose one the following options for what appears: One elemental of challenge rating 2 or lower Two elementals of challenge rating 1 or lower Four elementals of challenge rating 1/2 or lower Eight elementals of challenge rating 1/4 or lower. An elemental summoned by this spell disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends. The summoned creatures are friendly to you and your companions. Roll initiative for the summoned creatures as a group, which has its own turns. They obey any verbal commands that you issue to them (no action required by you). If you don't issue any commands to them, they defend themselves from hostile creatures, but otherwise take no actions. The DM has the creatures' statistics. At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using certain higher-level spell slots, you choose one of the summoning options above, and more creatures appear: twice as many with a 6th-level slot and three times as many with an 8th-level slot.

CONJURE VOLLEY
5th-level conjuration Casting Time: 1 action Range: 150 feet Components: V, S, M(one piece of ammunition or one thrown weapon) Duration: Instantaneous You fire a piece of nonmagical ammunition from a ranged weapon or throw a nonmagical weapon into the air and choose a point within range. Hundreds of duplicates of the ammunition or weapon fall in a volley from above and then disappear. Each creature in a 40-foot-radius, 20-foot-high cylinder centered on that point must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 8d8 damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The damage type is the same as that of the ammunition or weapon.

CONJURE WOODLAND BEINGS
4th-level conjuration Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S, M(one holly berry per creature summoned) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour You summon fey creatures that appear in unoccupied spaces that you can see within range. Choose one of the following options for what appears: One fey creature of challenge rating 2 or lower Two fey creatures of challenge rating 1 or lower Four fey creatures of challenge rating 1/2 or lower Eight fey creatures of challenge rating 1/4 or lower A summoned creature disappears when it drops to 0 hit points or when the spell ends. The summoned creatures are friendly to you and your companions. Roll initiative for the summoned creatures as a group, which have their own turns. They obey any verbal commands that you issue to them (no action required by you). If you don't issue any commands to them, they defend themselves from hostile creatures, but otherwise take no actions. The DM has the creatures' statistics. At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using certain higher-level spell slots, you choose one of the summoning options above, and more creatures appear: twice as many with a 6th-level slot and three times as many with an 8th-level slot.

CONTACT OTHER PLANE
5th-level divination (ritual) Casting Time: 1 minute Range: Self Components: V Duration: 1 minute You mentally contact a demigod, the spirit of a long-dead sage, or some other mysterious entity from another plane. Contacting this extraplanar intelligence can strain or even break your mind. When you cast this spell, make a DC 15 Intelligence saving throw. On a failure, you take 6d6 psychic damage and are insane until you finish a long rest. While insane, you can't take actions, can't understand what other creatures say, can't read, and speak only in gibberish. A greater restoration spell cast on you ends this effect. On a successful save, you can ask the entity up to five questions. You must ask your questions before the spell ends. The DM answers each question with one word, such as "yes," "no," "maybe," "never," "irrelevant," or "unclear" (if the entity doesn't know the answer to the question). If a one-word answer would be misleading, the DM might instead offer a short phrase as an answer.

CONTAGION
5th-level necromancy Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Component: V, S Duration: 7 days Your touch inflicts disease. Make a melee spell attack against a creature within your reach. On a hit, you afflict the creature with a disease of your choice from any of the ones described below. At the end of each of the target's turns, it must make a Constitution saving throw. After failing three of these saving throws, the disease's effects last for the duration, and the creature stops making these saves. After succeeding on three of these saving throws, the creature recovers from the disease, and the spell ends. Since this spell induces a natural disease in its target, any effect that removes a disease or otherwise ameliorates a disease's effects apply to it. Blinding Sickness. Pain grips the creature's mind, and its eyes turn milky white. The creature has disadvantage on Wisdom checks and Wisdom saving throws and is blinded. Filth Fever. A raging fever sweeps through the creature's body. The creature has disadvantage on Strength checks, Strength saving throws, and attack rolls that use Strength. Flesh Rot. The creature's flesh decays. The creature has disadvantage on Charisma checks and vulnerability to all damage. Mindfire. The creature's mind becomes feverish. The creature has disadvantage on Intelligence checks and Intelligence saving throws, and the creature behaves as if under the effects of the confusion spell during combat. Seizure. The creature is overcome with shaking. The creature has disadvantage on Dexterity checks, Dexterity saving throws, and attack rolls that use Dexterity. Slimy Doom. The creature begins to bleed uncontrollably. The creature has disadvantage on Constitution checks and Constitution saving throws. In addition, whenever the creature takes damage, it is stunned until the end of its next turn.

CONTINGENCY
6th-level evocation Casting Time: 10 minutes Range: Self Components: V, S, M(a statuette of yourself carved from ivory and decorated with gems worth at least 1,500 gp) Duration: 10 days Choose a spell of 5th level or lower that you can cast, that has a casting time of 1 action, and that can target you. You cast that spell-called the contingent spell-as part of casting contingency, expending spell slots for both, but the contingent spell doesn't come into effect. Instead, it takes effect when a certain circumstance occurs. You describe that circumstance when you cast the two spells. For example, a contingency cast with water breathing might stipulate that water breathing comes into effect when you are engulfed in water or a similar liquid. The contingent spell takes effect immediately after the circumstance is met for the first time, whether or not you want it to, and then contingency ends. The contingent spell takes effect only on you, even if it can normally target others. You can use only one contingency spell at a time. If you cast this spell again, the effect of another contingency spell on you ends. Also, contingency ends on you if its material component is ever not on your person.

CONTINUAL FLAME
2nd-level evocation Casting Time: 1 action Range: Touch Components: V, S, M(ruby dust worth 50 gp, which the spell consumes) Duration: Until dispelled A flame, equivalent in brightness to a torch, springs forth from an object that you touch. The effect looks like a regular flame, but it creates no heat and doesn't use oxygen. A continual flame can be covered or hidden but not smothered or quenched.

CONTROL WATER
4th-level transmutation Casting Time: 1 action Range: 300 feet Components: V, S, M(a drop of water and a pinch of dust) Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes Until the spell ends, you control any freestanding water inside an area you choose that is a cube up to 100 feet on a side. You can choose from any of the following effects when you cast this spell. As an action on your turn, you can repeat the same effect or choose a different one. Flood. You cause the water level of all standing water in the area to rise by as much as 20 feet. If the area includes a shore, the flooding water spills over onto dry land. If you choose an area in a large body of water, you instead create a 20-foot tall wave that travels from one side of the area to the other and then crashes down. Any Huge or smaller vehicles in the wave's path are carried with it to the other side. Any Huge or smaller vehicles struck by the wave have a 25 percent chance of capsizing. The water level remains elevated until the spell ends or you choose a different effect. If this effect produced a wave, the wave repeats on the start of your next turn while the flood effect lasts. Part Water. You cause water in the area to move apart and create a trench. The trench extends across the spell's area, and the separated water forms a wall to either side. The trench remains until the spell ends or you choose a different effect. The water then slowly fills in the trench over the course of the next round until the normal water level is restored. Redirect Flow. You cause flowing water in the area to move in a direction you choose, even if the water has to flow over obstacles, up walls, or in other unlikely directions. The water in the area moves as you direct it, but once it moves beyond the spell's area, it resumes its flow based on the terrain conditions. The water continues to move in the direction you chose until the spell ends or you choose a different effect. Whirlpool. This effect requires a body of water at least 50 feet square and 25 feet deep. You cause a whirlpool to form in the center of the area. The whirlpool forms a vortex that is 5 feet wide at the base, up to 50 feet wide at the top, and 25 feet tall. Any creature or object in the water and within 25 feet of the vortex is pulled 10 feet toward it. A creature can swim away from the vortex by making a Strength (Athletics) check against your spell save DC. When a creature enters the vortex for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, it must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 2d8 bludgeoning damage and is caught in the vortex until the spell ends. On a successful save, the creature takes half damage, and isn't caught in the vortex. A creature caught in the vortex can use its action to try to swim away from the vortex as described above, but has disadvantage on the Strength (Athletics) check to do so. The first time each turn that an object enters the vortex, the object takes 2d8 bludgeoning damage; this damage occurs each round it remains in the vortex.

CONTROL WEATHER
8th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self (5-mile radius)
Components: V, S, M (burning incense and bits of earth
and wood mixed in water)
Duration: Concentration, up to 8 hours
You take control of the weather within 5 miles of you
for the duration. You must be outdoors to cast this spell.
Moving to a place where you don't have a clear path to
the sky ends the spell early.
When you cast the spell, you change the current
weather conditions, which are determined by the DM
based on the climate and season. You can change
precipitation, temperature, and wind. It takes 1d4 x 10
minutes for the new conditions to take effect. Once they
do so, you can change the conditions again. When the
spell ends, the weather gradually returns to normal.
When you change the weather conditions, find a
current condition on the following tables and change its
stage by one, up or down. When changing the wind, you
can change its direction.

PRECIPITATION
Stage Condition
1 Clear
2 Light clouds
3 Overcast or ground fog
4 Rain, hail, or snow
5 Torrential rain, driving hail, or blizzard

TEMPERATURE             WIND
Stage Condition         Stage Condition
1 Unbearable heat       1 Calm
2 Hot                   2 Moderate wind
3 Warm                  3 Strong wind
4 Cool                  4 Gale
5 Cold                  5 Storm
6 Arctic cold

CORDON OF ARROWS
2nd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5 feet
Components: V, S, M (four or more arrows or bolts)
Duration: 8 hours
You plant four pieces of nonmagical ammunition—
arrows or crossbow bolts—in the ground within range
and lay magic upon them to protect an area. Until the
spell ends, whenever a creature other than you comes
within 30 feet of the ammunition for the first time on a
turn or ends its turn there, one piece of ammunition flies
up to strike it. The creature must succeed on a Dexterity
saving throw or take 1d6 piercing damage. The piece of
ammunition is then destroyed. The spell ends when no
ammunition remains.
When you cast this spell, you can designate any
creatures you choose, and the spell ignores them.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the amount of
ammunition that can be affected increases by two for
each slot level above 2nd.

COUNTERSPELL
3rd-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you see
a creature within 60 feet of you casting a spell
Range: 60 feet
Components: S
Duration: Instantaneous
You attempt to interrupt a creature in the process of
casting a spell. If the creature is casting a spell of 3rd
level or lower, its spell fails and has no effect. If it is
casting a spell of 4th level or higher, make an ability
check using your spellcasting ability. The DC equals 10
+ the spell’s level. On a success, the creature’s spell fails
and has no effect.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th level or higher, the interrupted spell has
no effect if its level is less than or equal to the level of the
spell slot you used.

CREATE FOOD AND WATER
3rd-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You create 45 pounds of food and 30 gallons of water
on the ground or in containers within range, enough
to sustain up to fifteen humanoids or five steeds for
24 hours. The food is bland but nourishing, and spoils
if uneaten after 24 hours. The water is clean and
doesn't go bad.

CROWN OF MADNESS
2nd-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
One humanoid of your choice that you can see within
range must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or
become charmed by you for the duration. While
the target is charmed in this way, a twisted crown
of jagged iron appears on its head, and a madness
glows in its eyes.
The charmed target must use its action before moving
on each of its turns to make a melee attack against a
creature other than itself that you mentally choose.

CREATION
5th-level illusion
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a tiny piece of matter of the same
type of the item you plan to create)
Duration: Special
You pull wisps of shadow material from the Shadowfell
to create a nonliving object of vegetable matter within
range: soft goods, rope, wood, or something similar. You
can also use this spell to create mineral objects such as
stone, crystal, or metal. The object created must be no
larger than a 5-foot cube, and the object must be of a
form and material that you have seen before.
The duration depends on the object’s material. If
the object is composed of multiple materials, use the
shortest duration.

CREATE OR DESTROY WATER
1st-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a drop of water if creating water
or a few grains of sand if destroying it)
Duration: Instantaneous
You either create or destroy water.
Create Water. You create up to 10 gallons of clean
water within range in an open container. Alternatively,
the water falls as rain in a 30-foot cube within range,
extinguishing exposed flames in the area.
Destroy Water. You destroy up to 10 gallons of water
in an open container within range. Alternatively, you
destroy fog in a 30-foot cube within range.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you create or destroy
10 additional gallons of water, or the size of the cube
increases by 5 feet, for each slot level above 1st.

CREATE UNDEAD
6th-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M (one clay pot filled with grave dirt,
one clay pot filled with brackish water, and one 150 gp
black onyx stone for each corpse)
Duration: Instantaneous
You can cast this spell only at night. Choose up to three
corpses of Medium or Small humanoids within range.
Each corpse becomes a ghoul under your control. (The
DM has game statistics for these creatures.)
As a bonus action on each of your turns, you can
mentally command any creature you animated with
this spell if the creature is within 120 feet of you (if you
control multiple creatures, you can command any or all
of them at the same time, issuing the same command to
each one). You decide what action the creature will take
and where it will move during its next turn, or you can
issue a general command, such as to guard a particular
chamber or corridor. If you issue no commands, the
creature only defends itself against hostile creatures.
Once given an order, the creature continues to follow it
until its task is complete.
The creature is under your control for 24 hours,
after which it stops obeying any command you have
given it. To maintain control of the creature for another
24 hours, you must cast this spell on the creature
before the current 24-hour period ends. This use
of the spell reasserts your control over up to three
creatures you have animated with this spell, rather than
animating new ones.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
7th-level spell slot, you can animate or reassert control
over four ghouls. When you cast this spell using an
8th-level spell slot, you can animate or reassert control
over five ghouls or two ghasts or wights. When you cast
this spell using a 9th-level spell slot, you can animate or
reassert control over six ghouls, three ghasts or wights,
or two mummies.

Material                Duration
Vegetable matter        1 day
Stone or crystal        12 hours
Precious metals         1 hour
Gems                    10 minutes
Adamantine or mithral   1 minute

The target can act normally on its turn if you choose no
creature or if none are within its reach.
On your subsequent turns, you must use your action to
maintain control over the target, or the spell ends. Also,
the target can make a Wisdom saving throw at the end
of each of its turns. On a success, the spell ends.

CRUSADER'S MANTLE
3rd-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Holy power radiates from you in an aura with a 30-foot
radius, awakening boldness in friendly creatures. Until
the spell ends, the aura moves with you, centered on
you. While in the aura, each nonhostile creature in the
aura (including you) deals an extra 1d4 radiant damage
when it hits with a weapon attack.

CURE WOUNDS
1st-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A creature you touch regains a number of hit points
equal to 1d8 + your spellcasting ability modifier. This
spell has no effect on undead or constructs.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the healing increases by
1d8 for each slot level above 1st.

DANCING LIGHTS
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of phosphorus or wychwood,
or a glowworm)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create up to four torch-sized lights within range,
making them appear as torches, lanterns, or glowing
orbs that hover in the air for the duration. You can
also combine the four lights into one glowing vaguely
humanoid form of Medium size. Whichever form you
choose, each light sheds dim light in a 10-foot radius.
As a bonus action on your turn, you can move the
lights up to 60 feet to a new spot within range. A light
must be within 20 feet of another light created by this
spell, and a light winks out if it exceeds the spell’s range.

DARKNESS
2nd-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, M (bat fur and a drop of pitch or a
piece of coal)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Magical darkness spreads from a point you choose
within range to fill a 15-foot-radius sphere for the
duration. The darkness spreads around corners.
A creature with darkvision can’t see through this
darkness, and nonmagical light can’t illuminate it.
If the point you choose is on an object you are holding
or one that isn’t being worn or carried, the darkness
emanates from the object and moves with it. Completely
covering the source of the darkness with an opaque
object, such as a bowl or a helm, blocks the darkness.
If any of this spell’s area overlaps with an area of light
created by a spell of 2nd level or lower, the spell that
created the light is dispelled.

DARKVISION
2nd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (either a pinch of dried
carrot or an agate)
Duration: 8 hours
You touch a willing creature to grant it the ability to
see in the dark. For the duration, that creature has
darkvision out to a range of 60 feet.

DAYLIGHT
3rd-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour
A 60-foot-radius sphere of light spreads out from a point
you choose within range. The sphere is bright light and
sheds dim light for an additional 60 feet.
If you choose a point on an object you are holding or
one that isn’t being worn or carried, the light shines
from the object and moves with it. Completely covering
the affected object with an opaque object, such as a bowl
or a helm, blocks the light.
If any of this spell’s area overlaps with an area of
darkness created by a spell of 3rd level or lower, the
spell that created the darkness is dispelled.

DEATH WARD
4th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 8 hours
You touch a creature and grant it a measure of
protection from death.
The first time the target would drop to 0 hit points as a
result of taking damage, the target instead drops to 1 hit
point, and the spell ends.
If the spell is still in effect when the target is subjected
to an effect that would kill it instantaneously without
dealing damage, that effect is instead negated against
the target, and the spell ends.

DELAYED BLAST FIREBALL
7th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a tiny ball of bat guano and sulfur)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A beam of yellow light flashes from your pointing finger, then condenses to linger at a chosen point within range as a glowing bead for the duration. When the spell ends, either because your concentration is broken or because you decide to end it, the bead blossoms with a low roar into an explosion of flame that spreads around corners. Each creature in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes fire damage equal to the total accumulated damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
The spell’s base damage is 12d6. If at the end of your turn the bead has not yet detonated, the damage increases by 1d6.
If the glowing bead is touched before the interval has expired, the creature touching it must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the spell ends immediately, causing the bead to erupt in flame. On a successful save, the creature can throw the bead up to 40 feet. When it strikes a creature or a solid object, the spell ends, and the bead explodes.
The fire damages objects in the area and ignites flammable objects that aren’t being worn or carried.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 8th level or higher, the base damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 7th.

DEMIPLANE
8th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: S
Duration: 1 hour
You create a shadowy door on a flat solid surface that you can see within range. The door is large enough to allow Medium creatures to pass through unhindered. When opened, the door leads to a demiplane that appears to be an empty room 30 feet in each dimension, made of wood or stone. When the spell ends, the door disappears, and any creatures or objects inside the demiplane remain trapped there, as the door also disappears from the other side.
Each time you cast this spell, you can create a new demiplane, or have the shadowy door connect to a demiplane you created with a previous casting of this spell. Additionally, if you know the nature and contents of a demiplane created by a casting of this spell by another creature, you can have the shadowy door connect to its demiplane instead.

DESTRUCTIVE WAVE
5th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (30-foot radius)
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You strike the ground, creating a burst of divine energy that ripples outward from you. Each creature you choose within 30 feet of you must succeed on a Constitution saving throw or take 5d6 thunder damage, as well as 5d6 radiant or necrotic damage (your choice), and be knocked prone. A creature that succeeds on its saving throw takes half as much damage and isn’t knocked prone.

DETECT EVIL AND GOOD
1st-level divination
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, you know if there is an aberration, celestial, elemental, fey, fiend, or undead within 30 feet of you, as well as where the creature is located. Similarly, you know if there is a place or object within 30 feet of you that has been magically consecrated or desecrated.
The spell can penetrate most barriers, but it is blocked by 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 feet of wood or dirt.

DETECT MAGIC
1st-level divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, you sense the presence of magic within 30 feet of you. If you sense magic in this way, you can use your action to see a faint aura around any visible creature or object in the area that bears magic, and you learn its school of magic, if any.
The spell can penetrate most barriers, but it is blocked by 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 feet of wood or dirt.

DETECT POISON AND DISEASE
1st-level divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a yew leaf)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, you can sense the presence and location of poisons, poisonous creatures, and diseases within 30 feet of you. You also identify the kind of poison, poisonous creature, or disease in each case.
The spell can penetrate most barriers, but it is blocked by 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of common metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 feet of wood or dirt.

DETECT THOUGHTS
2nd-level divination
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a copper piece)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration, you can read the thoughts of certain creatures. When you cast the spell and as your action on each turn until the spell ends, you can focus your mind on any one creature that you can see within 30 feet of you. If the creature you choose has an Intelligence of 3 or lower or doesn’t speak any language, the creature is unaffected.
You initially learn the surface thoughts of the creature—what is most on its mind in that moment. As an action, you can either shift your attention to another creature’s thoughts or attempt to probe deeper into the same creature’s mind. If you probe deeper, the target must make a Wisdom saving throw. If it fails, you gain insight into its reasoning (if any), its emotional state, and something that looms large in its mind (such as something it worries over, loves, or hates). If it succeeds, the spell ends. Either way, the target knows that you are probing into its mind, and unless you shift your attention to another creature’s thoughts, the creature can use its action on its turn to make an Intelligence check contested by your Intelligence check; if it succeeds, the spell ends.
Questions verbally directed at the target creature naturally shape the course of its thoughts, so this spell is particularly effective as part of an interrogation.
You can also use this spell to detect the presence of thinking creatures you can’t see. When you cast the spell or as your action during the duration, you can search for thoughts within 30 feet of you. The spell can penetrate barriers, but 2 feet of rock, 2 inches of any metal other than lead, or a thin sheet of lead blocks you. You can’t detect a creature with an Intelligence of 3 or lower or one that doesn’t speak any language.
Once you detect the presence of a creature in this way, you can read its thoughts for the rest of the duration as described above, even if you can’t see it, but it must still be within range.

DIMENSION DOOR
4th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 500 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You teleport yourself from your current location to any other spot within range. You arrive at exactly the spot desired. It can be a place you can see, one you can visualize, or one you can describe by stating distance and direction, such as “200 feet straight downward” or “upward to the northwest at a 45-degree angle, 300 feet.”
You can bring along objects as long as their weight doesn’t exceed what you can carry. You can also bring one willing creature of your size or smaller who is carrying gear up to its carrying capacity. The creature must be within 5 feet of you when you cast this spell.
If you would arrive in a place already occupied by an object or a creature, you and any creature traveling with you each take 4d6 force damage, and the spell fails to teleport you.
DISGUISE SELF
1st-level illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour
You make yourself—including your clothing, armor, weapons, and other belongings on your person—look different until the spell ends or until you use your action to dismiss it. You can seem 1 foot shorter or taller and can appear thin, fat, or in between. You can’t change your body type, so you must adopt a form that has the same basic arrangement of limbs. Otherwise, the extent of the illusion is up to you.
The changes wrought by this spell fail to hold up to physical inspection. For example, if you use this spell to add a hat to your outfit, objects pass through the hat, and anyone who touches it would feel nothing or would feel your head and hair. If you use this spell to appear thinner than you are, the hand of someone who reaches out to touch you would bump into you while it was seemingly still in midair.
To discern that you are disguised, a creature can use its action to inspect your appearance and must succeed on an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC.

DISINTEGRATE
6th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a lodestone and a pinch of dust)
Duration: Instantaneous
A thin green ray springs from your pointing finger to a target that you can see within range. The target can be a creature, an object, or a creation of magical force, such as the wall created by wall of force.
A creature targeted by this spell must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 10d6 + 40 force damage. If this damage reduces the target to 0 hit points, it is disintegrated.
A disintegrated creature and everything it is wearing and carrying, except magic items, are reduced to a pile of fine gray dust. The creature can be restored to life only by means of a true resurrection or a wish spell.
This spell automatically disintegrates a Large or smaller nonmagical object or a creation of magical force. If the target is a Huge or larger object or creation of force, this spell disintegrates a 10-foot-cube portion of it. A magic item is unaffected by this spell.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the damage increases by 3d6 for each slot level above 6th.

DISPEL EVIL AND GOOD
5th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (holy water or powdered silver and iron)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Shimmering energy surrounds and protects you from fey, undead, and creatures originating from beyond the Material Plane. For the duration, celestials, elementals, fey, fiends, and undead have disadvantage on attack rolls against you.
You can end the spell early by using either of the following special functions.
Break Enchantment. As your action, you touch a creature you can reach that is charmed, frightened, or possessed by a celestial, an elemental, a fey, a fiend, or an undead. The creature you touch is no longer charmed, frightened, or possessed by such creatures.
Dismissal. As your action, make a melee spell attack against a celestial, an elemental, a fey, a fiend, or an undead you can reach. On a hit, you attempt to drive the creature back to its home plane. The creature must succeed on a Charisma saving throw or be sent back to its home plane (if it isn’t there already). If they aren’t on their home plane, undead are sent to the Shadowfell, and fey are sent to the Feywild.

DISPEL MAGIC
3rd-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose one creature, object, or magical effect within range. Any spell of 3rd level or lower on the target ends. For each spell of 4th level or higher on the target, make an ability check using your spellcasting ability. The DC equals 10 + the spell’s level. On a successful check, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you automatically end the effects of a spell on the target if the spell’s level is equal to or less than the level of the spell slot you used.

DISSONANT WHISPERS
1st-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You whisper a discordant melody that only one creature of your choice within range can hear, wracking it with terrible pain. The target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, it takes 3d6 psychic damage and must immediately use its reaction, if available, to move as far as its speed allows away from you. The creature doesn’t move into obviously dangerous ground, such as a fire or a pit. On a successful save, the target takes half as much damage and doesn’t have to move away. A deafened creature automatically succeeds on the save.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.

DIVINATION
4th-level divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (incense and a sacrificial offering appropriate to your religion, together worth at least 25 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
Your magic and an offering put you in contact with a god or a god’s servants. You ask a single question concerning a specific goal, event, or activity to occur within 7 days. The DM offers a truthful reply. The reply might be a short phrase, a cryptic rhyme, or an omen. The spell doesn’t take into account any possible circumstances that might change the outcome, such as the casting of additional spells or the loss or gain of a companion.
If you cast the spell two or more times before finishing your next long rest, there is a cumulative 25 percent chance for each casting after the first that you get a random reading. The DM makes this roll in secret.

DIVINE FAVOR
1st-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Your prayer empowers you with divine radiance. Until the spell ends, your weapon attacks deal an extra 1d4 radiant damage on a hit.

DIVINE WORD
7th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
You utter a divine word, imbued with the power that shaped the world at the dawn of creation. Choose any number of creatures you can see within range. Each creature that can hear you must make a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, a creature suffers an effect based on its current hit points:
50 hit points or fewer: deafened for 1 minute
40 hit points or fewer: deafened and blinded for 10 minutes
30 hit points or fewer: blinded, deafened, and stunned for 1 hour
20 hit points or fewer: killed instantly
Regardless of its current hit points, a celestial, an elemental, a fey, or a fiend that fails its save is forced back to its plane of origin (if it isn’t there already) and can’t return to your current plane for 24 hours by any means short of a wish spell.

DOMINATE BEAST
4th-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You attempt to beguile a beast that you can see within range. It must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by you for the duration. If you or creatures that are friendly to you are fighting it, it has advantage on the saving throw.
While the beast is charmed, you have a telepathic link with it as long as the two of you are on the same plane of existence. You can use this telepathic link to issue commands to the creature while you are conscious (no action required), which it does its best to obey. You can specify a simple and general course of action, such as “Attack that creature,” “Run over there,” or “Fetch that object.” If the creature completes the order and doesn’t receive further direction from you, it defends and preserves itself to the best of its ability.
You can use your action to take total and precise control of the target. Until the end of your next turn, the creature takes only the actions you choose, and doesn’t do anything that you don’t allow it to do. During this time, you can also cause the creature to use a reaction, but this requires you to use your own reaction as well.
Each time the target takes damage, it makes a new Wisdom saving throw against the spell. If the saving throw succeeds, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell with a 5th-level spell slot, the duration is concentration, up to 10 minutes. When you use a 6th-level spell slot, the duration is concentration, up to 1 hour. When you use a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the duration is concentration, up to 8 hours.

DOMINATE MONSTER
8th-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You attempt to beguile a creature that you can see within range. It must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by you for the duration. If you or creatures that are friendly to you are fighting it, it has advantage on the saving throw.
While the creature is charmed, you have a telepathic link with it as long as the two of you are on the same plane of existence. You can use this telepathic link to issue commands to the creature while you are conscious (no action required), which it does its best to obey. You can specify a simple and general course of action, such as “Attack that creature,” “Run over there,” or “Fetch that object.” If the creature completes the order and doesn’t receive further direction from you, it defends and preserves itself to the best of its ability.
You can use your action to take total and precise control of the target. Until the end of your next turn, the creature takes only the actions you choose, and doesn’t do anything that you don’t allow it to do. During this time, you can also cause the creature to use a reaction, but this requires you to use your own reaction as well.
Each time the target takes damage, it makes a new Wisdom saving throw against the spell. If the saving throw succeeds, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell with a 9th-level spell slot, the duration is concentration, up to 8 hours.

DOMINATE PERSON
5th-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You attempt to beguile a humanoid that you can see within range. It must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be charmed by you for the duration. If you or creatures that are friendly to you are fighting it, it has advantage on the saving throw.
While the target is charmed, you have a telepathic link with it as long as the two of you are on the same plane of existence. You can use this telepathic link to issue commands to the creature while you are conscious (no action required), which it does its best to obey. You can specify a simple and general course of action, such as “Attack that creature,” “Run over there,” or “Fetch that object.” If the creature completes the order and doesn’t receive further direction from you, it defends and preserves itself to the best of its ability.
You can use your action to take total and precise control of the target. Until the end of your next turn, the creature takes only the actions you choose, and doesn’t do anything that you don’t allow it to do. During this time, you can also cause the creature to use a reaction, but this requires you to use your own reaction as well.
Each time the target takes damage, it makes a new Wisdom saving throw against the spell. If the saving throw succeeds, the spell ends.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a 6th-level spell slot, the duration is concentration, up to 10 minutes. When you use a 7th-level spell slot, the duration is concentration, up to 1 hour. When you use a spell slot of 8th level or higher, the duration is concentration, up to 8 hours.



DRAWMIJ’S INSTANT SUMMONS
6th-level conjuration (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a sapphire worth 1,000 gp)
Duration: Until dispelled
You touch an object weighing 10 pounds or less whose longest dimension is 6 feet or less. The spell leaves an invisible mark on its surface and invisibly inscribes the name of the item on the sapphire you use as the material component. Each time you cast this spell, you must use a different sapphire.
At any time thereafter, you can use your action to speak the item’s name and crush the sapphire. The item instantly appears in your hand regardless of physical or planar distances, and the spell ends.
If another creature is holding or carrying the item, crushing the sapphire doesn’t transport the item to you, but instead you learn who the creature possessing the object is and roughly where that creature is located at that moment.
Dispel magic or a similar effect successfully applied to the sapphire ends this spell’s effect.

DREAM
5th-level illusion
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Special
Components: V, S, M (a handful of sand, a dab of ink, and a writing quill plucked from a sleeping bird)
Duration: 8 hours
This spell shapes a creature’s dreams. Choose a creature known to you as the target of this spell. The target must be on the same plane of existence as you. Creatures that don’t sleep, such as elves, can’t be contacted by this spell. You, or a willing creature you touch, enters a trance state, acting as a messenger. While in the trance, the messenger is aware of his or her surroundings, but can’t take actions or move.
If the target is asleep, the messenger appears in the target’s dreams and can converse with the target as long as it remains asleep, through the duration of the spell. The messenger can also shape the environment of the dream, creating landscapes, objects, and other images. The messenger can emerge from the trance at any time, ending the effect of the spell early. The target recalls the dream perfectly upon waking. If the target is awake when you cast the spell, the messenger knows it, and can either end the trance (and the spell) or wait for the target to fall asleep, at which point the messenger appears in the target’s dreams.
You can make the messenger appear monstrous and terrifying to the target. If you do, the messenger can deliver a message of no more than ten words and then the target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, echoes of the phantasmal monstrosity spawn a nightmare that lasts the duration of the target’s sleep and prevents the target from gaining any benefit from that rest. In addition, when the target wakes up, it takes 3d6 psychic damage.
If you have a body part, lock of hair, clipping from a nail, or similar portion of the target’s body, the target makes its saving throw with disadvantage.

DRUIDCRAFT
Transmutation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Whispering to the spirits of nature, you create one of the following effects within range:
You create a tiny, harmless sensory effect that predicts what the weather will be at your location for the next 24 hours. The effect might manifest as a golden orb for clear skies, a cloud for rain, falling snowflakes for snow, and so on. This effect persists for 1 round.
You instantly make a flower blossom, a seed pod open, or a leaf bud bloom.
You create an instantaneous, harmless sensory effect, such as falling leaves, a puff of wind, the sound of a small animal, or the faint odor of skunk. The effect must fit in a 5-foot cube.
You instantly light or snuff out a candle, a torch, or a small campfire.

EARTHQUAKE
8th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 500 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of dirt, a piece of rock, and a lump of clay)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You create a seismic disturbance at a point on the ground that you can see within range. For the duration, an intense tremor rips through the ground in a 100-foot-radius circle centered on that point and shakes creatures and structures in contact with the ground in that area.
The ground in the area becomes difficult terrain. Each creature on the ground that is concentrating must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, the creature’s concentration is broken.
When you cast this spell and at the end of each turn you spend concentrating on it, each creature on the ground in the area must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is knocked prone.
This spell can have additional effects depending on the terrain in the area, as determined by the DM.
Fissures. Fissures open throughout the spell’s area at the start of your next turn after you cast the spell. A total of 1d6 such fissures open in locations chosen by the DM. Each is 1d10 × 10 feet deep, 10 feet wide, and extends from one edge of the spell’s area to the opposite side. A creature standing on a spot where a fissure opens must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or fall in. A creature that successfully saves moves with the fissure’s edge as it opens. A fissure that opens beneath a structure causes it to automatically collapse (see below).
Structures. The tremor deals 50 bludgeoning damage to any structure in contact with the ground in the area when you cast the spell and at the start of each of your turns until the spell ends. If a structure drops to 0 hit points, it collapses and potentially damages nearby creatures. A creature within half the distance of a structure’s height must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 5d6 bludgeoning damage, is knocked prone, and is buried in the rubble, requiring a DC 20 Strength (Athletics) check as an action to escape. The DM can adjust the DC higher or lower, depending on the nature of the rubble. On a successful save, the creature takes half as much damage and doesn’t fall prone or become buried.

ELDRITCH BLAST
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A beam of crackling energy streaks toward a creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes 1d10 force damage.
The spell creates more than one beam when you reach higher levels: two beams at 5th level, three beams at 11th level, and four beams at 17th level. You can direct the beams at the same target or at different ones. Make a separate attack roll for each beam.

ELEMENTAL WEAPON
3rd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
A nonmagical weapon you touch becomes a magic weapon. Choose one of the following damage types: acid, cold, fire, lightning, or thunder. For the duration, the weapon has a +1 bonus to attack rolls and deals an extra 1d4 damage of the chosen type when it hits.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 5th or 6th level, the bonus to attack rolls increases to +2 and the extra damage increases to 2d4. When you use a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the bonus increases to +3 and the extra damage increases to 3d4.

ENHANCE ABILITY
2nd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (fur or a feather from a beast)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You touch a creature and bestow upon it a magical enhancement. Choose one of the following effects; the target gains that effect until the spell ends.
Bear’s Endurance. The target has advantage on Constitution checks. It also gains 2d6 temporary hit points, which are lost when the spell ends.
Bull’s Strength. The target has advantage on Strength checks, and his or her carrying capacity doubles.
Cat’s Grace. The target has advantage on Dexterity checks. It also doesn’t take damage from falling 20 feet or less if it isn’t incapacitated.
Eagle’s Splendor. The target has advantage on Charisma checks.
Fox’s Cunning. The target has advantage on Intelligence checks.
Owl’s Wisdom. The target has advantage on Wisdom checks.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 3rd level or higher, you can target one additional creature for each slot level above 2nd.

ENLARGE/REDUCE
2nd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of powdered iron)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You cause a creature or an object you can see within range to grow larger or smaller for the duration. Choose either a creature or an object that is neither worn nor carried. If the target is unwilling, it can make a Constitution saving throw. On a success, the spell has no effect.
If the target is a creature, everything it is wearing and carrying changes size with it. Any item dropped by an affected creature returns to normal size at once.
Enlarge. The target’s size doubles in all dimensions, and its weight is multiplied by eight. This growth increases its size by one category—from Medium to Large, for example. If there isn’t enough room for the target to double its size, the creature or object attains the maximum possible size in the space available. Until the spell ends, the target also has advantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws. The target’s weapons also grow to match its new size. While these weapons are enlarged, the target’s attacks with them deal 1d4 extra damage.
Reduce. The target’s size is halved in all dimensions, and its weight is reduced to one-eighth of normal. This reduction decreases its size by one category—from Medium to Small, for example. Until the spell ends, the target also has disadvantage on Strength checks and Strength saving throws. The target’s weapons also shrink to match its new size. While these weapons are reduced, the target’s attacks with them deal 1d4 less damage (this can’t reduce the damage below 1).
ENSNARING STRIKE
1st-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
The next time you hit a creature with a weapon attack before this spell ends, a writhing mass of thorny vines appears at the point of impact, and the target must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be restrained by the magical vines until the spell ends. A Large or larger creature has advantage on this saving throw. If the target succeeds on the save, the vines shrivel away.
While restrained by this spell, the target takes 1d6 piercing damage at the start of each of its turns. A creature restrained by the vines or one that can touch the creature can use its action to make a Strength check against your spell save DC. On a success, the target is freed.
At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.

ENTANGLE
1st-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Grasping weeds and vines sprout from the ground in a 20-foot square starting from a point within range. For the duration, these plants turn the ground in the area into difficult terrain.
A creature in the area when you cast the spell must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be restrained by the entangling plants until the spell ends. A creature restrained by the plants can use its action to make a Strength check against your spell save DC. On a success, it frees itself.
When the spell ends, the conjured plants wilt away.

ENTHRALL
2nd-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 minute
You weave a distracting string of words, causing creatures of your choice that you can see within range and that can hear you to make a Wisdom saving throw. Any creature that can’t be charmed succeeds on this saving throw automatically, and if you or your companions are fighting a creature, it has advantage on the save. On a failed save, the target has disadvantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks made to perceive any creature other than you until the spell ends or until the target can no longer hear you. The spell ends if you are incapacitated or can no longer speak.

ETHEREALNESS
7th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Up to 8 hours
You step into the border regions of the Ethereal Plane, in the area where it overlaps with your current plane. You remain in the Border Ethereal for the duration or until you use your action to dismiss the spell. During this time, you can move in any direction. If you move up or down, every foot of movement costs an extra foot. You can see and hear the plane you originated from, but everything there looks gray, and you can’t see anything more than 60 feet away.
While on the Ethereal Plane, you can only affect and be affected by other creatures on that plane. Creatures that aren’t on the Ethereal Plane can’t perceive you and can’t interact with you, unless a special ability or magic has given them the ability to do so.
You ignore all objects and effects that aren’t on the Ethereal Plane, allowing you to move through objects you perceive on the plane you originated from.
When the spell ends, you immediately return to the plane you originated from in the spot you currently occupy. If you occupy the same spot as a solid object or creature when this happens, you are immediately shunted to the nearest unoccupied space that you can occupy and take force damage equal to twice the number of feet you are moved.
This spell has no effect if you cast it while you are on the Ethereal Plane or a plane that doesn’t border it, such as one of the Outer Planes.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 8th level or higher, you can target up to three willing creatures (including you) for each slot level above 7th. The creatures must be within 10 feet of you when you cast the spell.

EVARD’S BLACK TENTACLES
4th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M (a piece of tentacle from a giant octopus or a giant squid)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Squirming, ebony tentacles fill a 20-foot square on ground that you can see within range. For the duration, these tentacles turn the ground in the area into difficult terrain.
When a creature enters the affected area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, the creature must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or take 3d6 bludgeoning damage and be restrained by the tentacles until the spell ends. A creature that starts its turn in the area and is already restrained by the tentacles takes 3d6 bludgeoning damage.
A creature restrained by the tentacles can use its action to make a Strength or Dexterity check (its choice) against your spell save DC. On a success, it frees itself.

EXPEDITIOUS RETREAT
1st-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
This spell allows you to move at an incredible pace. When you cast this spell, and then as a bonus action on each of your turns until the spell ends, you can take the Dash action.

EYEBITE
6th-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the spell’s duration, your eyes become an inky void imbued with dread power. One creature of your choice within 60 feet of you that you can see must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be affected by one of the following effects of your choice for the duration. On each of your turns until the spell ends, you can use your action to target another creature but can’t target a creature again if it has succeeded on a saving throw against this casting of eyebite.
Asleep. The target falls unconscious. It wakes up if it takes any damage or if another creature uses its action to shake the sleeper awake.
Panicked. The target is frightened of you. On each of its turns, the frightened creature must take the Dash action and move away from you by the safest and shortest available route, unless there is nowhere to move. If the target moves to a place at least 60 feet away from you where it can no longer see you, this effect ends.
Sickened. The target has disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks. At the end of each of its turns, it can make another Wisdom saving throw. If it succeeds, the effect ends.

FABRICATE
4th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You convert raw materials into products of the same material. For example, you can fabricate a wooden bridge from a clump of trees, a rope from a patch of hemp, and clothes from flax or wool.
Choose raw materials that you can see within range. You can fabricate a Large or smaller object (contained within a 10-foot cube, or eight connected 5-foot cubes), given a sufficient quantity of raw material. If you are working with metal, stone, or another mineral substance, however, the fabricated object can be no larger than Medium (contained within a single 5-foot cube). The quality of objects made by the spell is commensurate with the quality of the raw materials.
Creatures or magic items can’t be created or transmuted by this spell. You also can’t use it to create items that ordinarily require a high degree of craftsmanship, such as jewelry, weapons, glass, or armor, unless you have proficiency with the type of artisan’s tools used to craft such objects.

FAERIE FIRE
1st-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Each object in a 20-foot cube within range is outlined in blue, green, or violet light (your choice). Any creature in the area when the spell is cast is also outlined in light if it fails a Dexterity saving throw. For the duration, objects and affected creatures shed dim light in a 10-foot radius.
Any attack roll against an affected creature or object has advantage if the attacker can see it, and the affected creature or object can’t benefit from being invisible.

FALSE LIFE
1st-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a small amount of alcohol or distilled spirits)
Duration: 1 hour
Bolstering yourself with a necromantic facsimile of life, you gain 1d4 + 4 temporary hit points for the duration.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, you gain 5 additional temporary hit points for each slot level above 1st.

FEAR
3rd-level illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (30-foot cone)
Components: V, S, M (a white feather or the heart of a hen)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You project a phantasmal image of a creature’s worst fears. Each creature in a 30-foot cone must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or drop whatever it is holding and become frightened for the duration.
While frightened by this spell, a creature must take the Dash action and move away from you by the safest available route on each of its turns, unless there is nowhere to move. If the creature ends its turn in a location where it doesn’t have line of sight to you, the creature can make a Wisdom saving throw. On a successful save, the spell ends for that creature.

FEATHER FALL
1st-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you or a creature within 60 feet of you falls
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, M (a small feather or piece of down)
Duration: 1 minute
Choose up to five falling creatures within range. A falling creature’s rate of descent slows to 60 feet per round until the spell ends. If the creature lands before the spell ends, it takes no falling damage and can land on its feet, and the spell ends for that creature.

FEEBLEMIND
8th-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a handful of clay, crystal, glass, or mineral spheres)
Duration: Instantaneous
You blast the mind of a creature that you can see within range, attempting to shatter its intellect and personality. The target takes 4d6 psychic damage and must make an Intelligence saving throw.
On a failed save, the creature’s Intelligence and Charisma scores become 1. The creature can’t cast spells, activate magic items, understand language, or communicate in any intelligible way. The creature can, however, identify its friends, follow them, and even protect them.
At the end of every 30 days, the creature can repeat its saving throw against this spell. If it succeeds on its saving throw, the spell ends.
The spell can also be ended by greater restoration, heal, or wish.

FEIGN DEATH
3rd-level necromancy (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of graveyard dirt)
Duration: 1 hour
You touch a willing creature and put it into a cataleptic state that is indistinguishable from death.
For the spell’s duration, or until you use an action to touch the target and dismiss the spell, the target appears dead to all outward inspection and to spells used to determine the target’s status. The target is blinded and incapacitated, and its speed drops to 0. The target has resistance to all damage except psychic damage. If the target is diseased or poisoned when you cast the spell, or becomes diseased or poisoned while under the spell’s effect, the disease and poison have no effect until the spell ends.



FIREBALL
3rd-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a tiny ball of bat
guano and sulfur)
Duration: Instantaneous
A bright streak flashes from your pointing finger to a
point you choose within range and then blossoms with
a low roar into an explosion of flame. Each creature
in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must
make a Dexterity saving throw. A target takes 8d6 fire
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a
successful one.
The fire spreads around corners. It ignites flammable
objects in the area that aren't being worn or carried.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by
1d6 for each slot level above 3rd.

FIRE BOLT
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You hurl a mote of fire at a creature or object within
range. Make a ranged spell attack against the
target. On a hit, the target takes 1d10 fire damage. A
flammable object hit by this spell ignites if it isn't being
worn or carried.
This spell's damage increases by 1d10 when you reach
5th level (2d10), 11th level (3d10), and 17th level (4d10).

FIRE SHIELD
4th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (a bit of phosphorus or a firefly)
Duration: 10 minutes
Thin and wispy flames wreathe your body for the
duration, shedding bright light in a 10-foot radius and
dim light for an additional 10 feet. You can end the spell
early by using an action to dismiss it.
The flames provide you with a warm shield or a chill
shield, as you choose. The warm shield grants you
resistance to cold damage, and the chill shield grants
you resistance to fire damage.
In addition, whenever a creature within 5 feet of you
hits you with a melee attack, the shield erupts with
flame. The attacker takes 2d8 fire damage from a warm
shield, or 2d8 cold damage from a cold shield.

FIRE STORM
7th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
A storm made up of sheets of roaring flame appears
in a location you choose within range. The area of the
storm consists of up to ten 10-foot cubes, which you can
arrange as you wish. Each cube must have at least one
face adjacent to the face of another cube. Each creature
in the area must make a Dexterity saving throw. It
takes 7d10 fire damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one.
The fire damages objects in the area and ignites
flammable objects that aren't being worn or carried.
If you choose, plant life in the area is unaffected
by this spell.

FLAME BLADE
2nd-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V, S, M (leaf of sumac)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You evoke a fiery blade in your free hand. The blade is
similar in size and shape to a scimitar, and it lasts for
the duration. If you let go of the blade, it disappears, but
you can evoke the blade again as a bonus action.
You can use your action to make a melee spell
attack with the fiery blade. On a hit, the target takes
3d6 fire damage.
The flaming blade sheds bright light in a 10-foot
radius and dim light for an additional 10 feet.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage increases by
1d6 for every two slot levels above 2nd.

FLAME STRIKE
5th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (pinch of sulfur)
Duration: Instantaneous
A vertical column of divine fire roars down from the
heavens in a location you specify. Each creature in
a 10-foot-radius, 40-foot-high cylinder centered on a
point within range must make a Dexterity saving throw.
A creature takes 4d6 fire damage and 4d6 radiant
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a
successful one.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th level or higher, the fire damage or the
radiant damage (your choice) increases by 1d6 for each
slot level above 5th.

FLAMING SPHERE
2nd-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of tallow, a pinch of
brimstone, and a dusting of powdered iron)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A 5-foot-diameter sphere of fire appears in an
unoccupied space of your choice within range and lasts
for the duration. Any creature that ends its turn within 5
feet of the sphere must make a Dexterity saving throw.
The creature takes 2d6 fire damage on a failed save, or
half as much damage on a successful one.
As a bonus action, you can move the sphere up to 30
feet. If you ram the sphere into a creature, that creature
must make the saving throw against the sphere's
damage, and the sphere stops moving this turn.
When you move the sphere, you can direct it over
barriers up to 5 feet tall and jump it across pits up to
10 feet wide. The sphere ignites flammable objects not
being worn or carried, and it sheds bright light in a
20-foot radius and dim light for an additional 20 feet.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd level or higher, the damage increases by
1d6 for each slot level above 2nd.

FLESH TO STONE
6th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of lime, water, and earth)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You attempt to turn one creature that you can see within
range into stone. If the target's body is made of flesh, the
creature must make a Constitution saving throw. On a
failed save, it is restrained as its flesh begins to harden.
On a successful save, the creature isn't affected.
A creature restrained by this spell must make another
Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns.
If it successfully saves against this spell three times, the
spell ends. If it fails its saves three times, it is turned
to stone and subjected to the petrified condition for the
duration. The successes and failures don't need to be
consecutive; keep track of both until the target collects
three of a kind.
If the creature is physically broken while petrified,
it suffers from similar deformities if it reverts to its
original state.
If you maintain your concentration on this spell for the
entire possible duration, the creature is turned to stone
until the effect is removed.

FLY
3rd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a wing feather from any bird)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You touch a willing creature. The target gains a flying
speed of 60 feet for the duration. When the spell ends,
the target falls if it is still aloft, unless it can stop the fall.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot level above 3rd.

FOG CLOUD
1st-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You create a 20-foot-radius sphere of fog centered on a
point within range. The sphere spreads around corners,
and its area is heavily obscured. It lasts for the duration
or until a wind of moderate or greater speed (at least 10
miles per hour) disperses it.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the radius of the fog
increases by 20 feet for each slot level above 1st.

FORBIDDANCE
6th-level abjuration (ritual)
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a sprinkling of holy water, rare
incense, and powdered ruby worth at least 1,000 gp)
Duration: 1 day
You create a ward against magical travel that protects
up to 40,000 square feet of floor space to a height of 30
feet above the floor. For the duration, creatures can't
teleport into the area or use portals, such as those
created by the gate spell, to enter the area. The spell
proofs the area against planar travel, and therefore
prevents creatures from accessing the area by way of
the Astral Plane, Ethereal Plane, Feywild, Shadowfell,
or the plane shift spell.
In addition, the spell damages types of creatures that
you choose when you cast it. Choose one or more of the
following: celestials, elementals, fey, fiends, and undead.
When a chosen creature enters the spell's area for the
first time on a turn or starts its turn there, the creature
takes 5d10 radiant or necrotic damage (your choice
when you cast this spell).
When you cast this spell, you can designate a
password. A creature that speaks the password as it
enters the area takes no damage from the spell.
The spell's area can't overlap with the area of another
forbiddance spell. If you cast forbiddance every day for
30 days in the same location, the spell lasts until it is
dispelled, and the material components are consumed
on the last casting.

FORCECAGE
7th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 100 feet
Components: V, S, M (ruby dust worth 1,500 gp)
Duration: 1 hour
An immobile, invisible, cube-shaped prison composed of
magical force springs into existence around an area you
choose within range. The prison can be a cage or a solid
box, as you choose.
A prison in the shape of a cage can be up to 20 feet on
a side and is made from 1/2-inch diameter bars spaced
1/2 inch apart.
A prison in the shape of a box can be up to 10 feet on
a side, creating a solid barrier that prevents any matter
from passing through it and blocking any spells cast into
or out from the area.
When you cast the spell, any creature that is
completely inside the cage's area is trapped. Creatures
only partially within the area, or those too large to fit
inside the area, are pushed away from the center of the
area until they are completely outside the area.
A creature inside the cage can't leave it by nonmagical
means. If the creature tries to use teleportation or
interplanar travel to leave the cage, it must first make a
Charisma saving throw. On a success, the creature can
use that magic to exit the cage. On a failure, the creature
can't exit the cage and wastes the use of the spell or
effect. The cage also extends into the Ethereal Plane,
blocking ethereal travel.
This spell can't be dispelled by dispel magic.

FORESIGHT
9th-level divination
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a hummingbird feather)
Duration: 8 hours
You touch a willing creature and bestow a limited ability
to see into the immediate future. For the duration, the
target can't be surprised and has advantage on attack
rolls, ability checks, and saving throws. Additionally,
other creatures have disadvantage on attack rolls
against the target for the duration.
This spell immediately ends if you cast it again before
its duration ends.

FREEDOM OF MOVEMENT
4th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a leather strap, bound around the
arm or a similar appendage)
Duration: 1 hour
You touch a willing creature. For the duration, the
target's movement is unaffected by difficult terrain, and
spells and other magical effects can neither reduce
the target's speed nor cause the target to be paralyzed
or restrained.
The target can also spend 5 feet of movement to
automatically escape from nonmagical restraints, such
as manacles or a creature that has it grappled. Finally,
being underwater imposes no penalties on the target's
movement or attacks.

FRIENDS
Enchantment cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: S, M (a small amount of makeup applied
to the face as this spell is cast)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
For the duration, you have advantage on all Charisma
checks directed at one creature of your choice that isn't
hostile toward you. When the spell ends, the creature
realizes that you used magic to influence its mood
and becomes hostile toward you. A creature prone
to violence might attack you. Another creature might
seek retribution in other ways (at the DM's discretion),
depending on the nature of your interaction with it.

GASEOUS FORM
3rd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a bit of gauze and a
wisp of smoke)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You transform a willing creature you touch, along with
everything it's wearing and carrying, into a misty cloud
for the duration. The spell ends if the creature drops to
0 hit points. An incorporeal creature isn't affected.
While in this form, the target's only method of
movement is a flying speed of 10 feet. The target can
enter and occupy the space of another creature. The
target has resistance to nonmagical damage, and it has
advantage on Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution
saving throws. The target can pass through small holes,
narrow openings, and even mere cracks, though it treats
liquids as though they were solid surfaces. The target
can't fall and remains hovering in the air even when
stunned or otherwise incapacitated.
While in the form of a misty cloud, the target can't talk
or manipulate objects, and any objects it was carrying or
holding can't be dropped, used, or otherwise interacted
with. The target can't attack or cast spells.

GATE
9th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S, M(a diamond worth at least 5,000 gp)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You conjure a portal linking an unoccupied space you
can see within range to a precise location on a different
plane of existence. The portal is a circular opening,
which you can make 5 to 20 feet in diameter. You can
orient the portal in any direction you choose. The portal
lasts for the duration.
The portal has a front and a back on each plane where
it appears. Travel through the portal is possible only
by moving through its front. Anything that does so is
instantly transported to the other plane, appearing in
the unoccupied space nearest to the portal.
Deities and other planar rulers can prevent portals
created by this spell from opening in their presence or
anywhere within their domains.
When you cast this spell, you can speak the name
of a specific creature (a pseudonym, title, or nickname
doesn't work). If that creature is on a plane other than
the one you are on, the portal opens in the named
creature's immediate vicinity and draws the creature
through it to the nearest unoccupied space on your side
of the portal. You gain no special power over the creature,
and it is free to act as the DM deems appropriate. It
might leave, attack you, or help you.

GEAS
5th-level enchantment
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: 30 days
You place a magical command on a creature that you
can see within range, forcing it to carry out some
service or refrain from some action or course of activity
as you decide. If the creature can understand you, it
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or become
charmed by you for the duration. While the creature
is charmed by you, it takes 5d10 psychic damage
each time it acts in a manner directly counter to your
instructions, but no more than once each day. A creature
that can't understand you is unaffected by the spell.
You can issue any command you choose, short of an
activity that would result in certain death. Should you
issue a suicidal command, the spell ends.
You can end the spell early by using an action to
dismiss it. A remove curse, greater restoration, or wish
spell also ends it.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 7th or 8th level, the duration is 1 year.
When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 9th level,
the spell lasts until it is ended by one of the spells
mentioned above.

GENTLE REPOSE
2nd-level necromancy (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M(a pinch of salt and one copper
piece placed on each of the corpse's eyes, which must
remain there for the duration)
Duration: 10 days
You touch a corpse or other remains. For the
duration, the target is protected from decay and can't
become undead.
The spell also effectively extends the time limit on
raising the target from the dead, since days spent under
the influence of this spell don't count against the time
limit of spells such as raise dead.

GIANT INSECT
4th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
You transform up to ten centipedes, three spiders, five
wasps, or one scorpion within range into giant versions
of their natural forms for the duration. A centipede
becomes a giant centipede, a spider becomes a giant
spider, a wasp becomes a giant wasp, and a scorpion
becomes a giant scorpion.
Each creature obeys your verbal commands, and
in combat, they act on your turn each round. The DM
has the statistics for these creatures and resolves their
actions and movement.
A creature remains in its giant size for the duration,
until it drops to 0 hit points, or until you use an action to
dismiss the effect on it.
The DM might allow you to choose different targets.
For example, if you transform a bee, its giant version
might have the same statistics as a giant wasp.

GLIBNESS
8th-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: 1 hour
Until the spell ends, when you make a Charisma
check, you can replace the number you roll with a 15.
Additionally, no matter what you say, magic that would
determine if you are telling the truth indicates that you
are being truthful.

GLOBE OF INVULNERABILITY
6th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (10-foot radius)
Components: V, S, M(a glass or crystal bead that
shatters when the spell ends)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
An immobile, faintly shimmering barrier springs into
existence in a 10-foot radius around you and remains for
the duration.
Any spell of 5th level or lower cast from outside the
barrier can't affect creatures or objects within it, even
if the spell is cast using a higher level spell slot. Such a
spell can target creatures and objects within the barrier,
but the spell has no effect on them. Similarly, the area
within the barrier is excluded from the areas affected
by such spells.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 7th level or higher, the barrier blocks spells
of one level higher for each slot level above 6th.

GLYPH OF WARDING
3rd-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M(incense and powdered diamond
worth at least 200 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled or triggered
When you cast this spell, you inscribe a glyph that
harms other creatures, either upon a surface (such as
a table or a section of floor or wall) or within an object
that can be closed (such as a book, a scroll, or a treasure
chest) to conceal the glyph. If you choose a surface, the
glyph can cover an area of the surface no larger than
10 feet in diameter. If you choose an object, that object
must remain in its place; if the object is moved more
than 10 feet from where you cast this spell, the glyph is
broken, and the spell ends without being triggered.
The glyph is nearly invisible and requires a successful
Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save
DC to be found.
You decide what triggers the glyph when you cast
the spell. For glyphs inscribed on a surface, the most
typical triggers include touching or standing on the
glyph, removing another object covering the glyph,
approaching within a certain distance of the glyph, or
manipulating the object on which the glyph is inscribed.
For glyphs inscribed within an object, the most common
triggers include opening that object, approaching within
a certain distance of the object, or seeing or reading the
glyph. Once a glyph is triggered, this spell ends.
You can further refine the trigger so the spell activates
only under certain circumstances or according to
physical characteristics (such as height or weight),
creature kind (for example, the ward could be set to
affect aberrations or drow), or alignment. You can also
set conditions for creatures that don't trigger the glyph,
such as those who say a certain password.
When you inscribe the glyph, choose explosive runes
or a spell glyph.
Explosive Runes. When triggered, the glyph erupts
with magical energy in a 20-foot-radius sphere centered
on the glyph. The sphere spreads around corners. Each
creature in the area must make a Dexterity saving
throw. A creature takes 5d8 acid, cold, fire, lightning, or
thunder damage on a failed saving throw (your choice
when you create the glyph), or half as much damage on a
successful one.
Spell Glyph. You can store a prepared spell of
3rd level or lower in the glyph by casting it as part
of creating the glyph. The spell must target a single
creature or an area. The spell being stored has no
immediate effect when cast in this way. When the glyph
is triggered, the stored spell is cast. If the spell has a
target, it targets the creature that triggered the glyph.
If the spell affects an area, the area is centered on
that creature. If the spell summons hostile creatures
or creates harmful objects or traps, they appear as
close as possible to the intruder and attack it. If the
spell requires concentration, it lasts until the end of its
full duration.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 4th level or higher, the damage of an
explosive runes glyph increases by 1d8 for each slot
level above 3rd. If you create a spell glyph, you can store
any spell of up to the same level as the slot you use for
the glyph of warding.

GOODBERRY
1st-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M(a sprig of mistletoe)
Duration: Instantaneous
Up to ten berries appear in your hand and are infused
with magic for the duration. A creature can use its
action to eat one berry. Eating a berry restores 1 hit
point, and the berry provides enough nourishment to
sustain a creature for one day.
The berries lose their potency if they have not been
consumed within 24 hours of the casting of this spell.

GRASPING VINE
4th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You conjure a vine that sprouts from the ground in an
unoccupied space of your choice that you can see within
range. When you cast this spell, you can direct the vine
to lash out at a creature within 30 feet of it that you can
see. That creature must succeed on a Dexterity saving
throw or be pulled 20 feet directly toward the vine.
Until the spell ends, you can direct the vine to lash out
at the same creature or another one as a bonus action
on each of your turns.

GREASE
1st-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M(a bit of pork rind or butter)
Duration: 1 minute
Slick grease covers the ground in a 10-foot square
centered on a point within range and turns it into
difficult terrain for the duration.
When the grease appears, each creature standing in
its area must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or fall
prone. A creature that enters the area or ends its turn
there must also succeed on a Dexterity saving throw
or fall prone.

GREATER INVISIBILITY
4th-level illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You or a creature you touch becomes invisible until the
spell ends. Anything the target is wearing or carrying is
invisible as long as it is on the target's person.

GREATER RESTORATION
5th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M(diamond dust worth at least 100
gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
You imbue a creature you touch with positive energy to
undo a debilitating effect. You can reduce the target's
exhaustion level by one, or end one of the following
effects on the target:
One effect that charmed or petrified the target
One curse, including the target's attunement to a
cursed magic item
Any reduction to one of the target's ability scores
One effect reducing the target's hit point maximum

GUARDIAN OF FAITH
4th-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: 8 hours
A Large spectral guardian appears and hovers for the
duration in an unoccupied space of your choice that you
can see within range. The guardian occupies that space
and is indistinct except for a gleaming sword and shield
emblazoned with the symbol of your deity.
Any creature hostile to you that moves to a space
within 10 feet of the guardian for the first time on a
turn must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw. The
creature takes 20 radiant damage on a failed save, or
half as much damage on a successful one. The guardian
vanishes when it has dealt a total of 60 damage.

GUARDS AND WARDS
6th-level abjuration
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M(burning incense, a small
measure of brimstone and oil, a knotted string, a
small amount of umber hulk blood, and a small silver
rod worth at least 10 gp)
Duration: 24 hours
You create a ward that protects up to 2,500 square feet
of floor space (an area 50 feet square, or one hundred
5-foot squares or twenty-five 10-foot squares). The
warded area can be up to 20 feet tall, and shaped as you
desire. You can ward several stories of a stronghold by
dividing the area among them, as long as you can walk
into each contiguous area while you are casting the spell.
When you cast this spell, you can specify individuals
that are unaffected by any or all of the effects that
you choose. You can also specify a password that,
when spoken aloud, makes the speaker immune to
these effects.
Guards and wards creates the following effects within
the warded area.
Corridors. Fog fills all the warded corridors, making
them heavily obscured. In addition, at each intersection
or branching passage offering a choice of direction,
there is a 50 percent chance that a creature other than
you will believe it is going in the opposite direction from
the one it chooses.
Doors. All doors in the warded area are magically
locked, as if sealed by an arcane lock spell. In addition,
you can cover up to ten doors with an illusion (equivalent
to the illusory object function of the minor illusion spell)
to make them appear as plain sections of wall.
Stairs. Webs fill all stairs in the warded area from top
to bottom, as the web spell. These strands regrow in 10
minutes if they are burned or torn away while guards
and wards lasts.
Other Spell Effect. You can place your choice of one
of the following magical effects within the warded area
of the stronghold.
Place dancing lights in four corridors. You can designate
a simple program that the lights repeat as long as
guards and wards lasts.
Place magic mouth in two locations.
Place stinking cloud in two locations. The vapors
appear in the places you designate; they return within
10 minutes if dispersed by wind while guards and
wards lasts.
Place a constant gust of wind in one corridor or room.
Place a suggestion in one location. You select an area
of up to 5 feet square, and any creature that enters
or passes through the area receives the suggestion
mentally.
The whole warded area radiates magic. A dispel
magic cast on a specific effect, if successful, removes
only that effect.
You can create a permanently guarded and warded
structure by casting this spell there every day
for one year.

GUIDANCE
Divination cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
You touch one willing creature. Once before the spell ends, the target can roll a d4 and add the number rolled to one ability check of its choice. It can roll the die before or after making the ability check. The spell then ends.

GUIDING BOLT
1st-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 round
A flash of light streaks toward a creature of your choice within range. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target takes 4d6 radiant damage, and the next attack roll made against this target before the end of your next turn has advantage, thanks to the mystical dim light glittering on the target until then.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d6 for each slot level above 1st.

GUST OF WIND
2nd-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (60-foot line)
Components: V, S, M (a legume seed)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A line of strong wind 60 feet long and 10 feet wide blasts from you in a direction you choose for the spell’s duration. Each creature that starts its turn in the line must succeed on a Strength saving throw or be pushed 15 feet away from you in a direction following the line.
Any creature in the line must spend 2 feet of movement for every 1 foot it moves when moving closer to you.
The gust disperses gas or vapor, and it extinguishes candles, torches, and similar unprotected flames in the area. It causes protected flames, such as those of lanterns, to dance wildly and has a 50 percent chance to extinguish them.
As a bonus action on each of your turns before the spell ends, you can change the direction in which the line blasts from you.

HAIL OF THORNS
1st-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
The next time you hit a creature with a ranged weapon attack before the spell ends, this spell creates a rain of thorns that sprouts from your ranged weapon or ammunition. In addition to the normal effect of the attack, the target of the attack and each creature within 5 feet of it must make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 1d10 piercing damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
At Higher Levels. If you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the damage increases by 1d10 for each slot level above 1st (to a maximum of 6d10).

HALLOW
5th-level evocation
Casting Time: 24 hours
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (herbs, oils, and incense worth at least 1,000 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
You touch a point and infuse an area around it with holy (or unholy) power. The area can have a radius up to 60 feet, and the spell fails if the radius includes an area already under the effect of a hallow spell. The affected area is subject to the following effects.
First, celestials, elementals, fey, fiends, and undead can’t enter the area, nor can such creatures charm, frighten, or possess creatures within it. Any creature charmed, frightened, or possessed by such a creature is no longer charmed, frightened, or possessed upon entering the area. You can exclude one or more of those types of creatures from this effect.
Second, you can bind an extra effect to the area. Choose the effect from the following list, or choose an effect offered by the DM. Some of these effects apply to creatures in the area; you can designate whether the effect applies to all creatures, creatures that follow a specific deity or leader, or creatures of a specific sort, such as orcs or trolls. When a creature that would be affected enters the spell’s area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there, it can make a Charisma saving throw. On a success, the creature ignores the extra effect until it leaves the area.
Courage. Affected creatures can’t be frightened while in the area.
Darkness. Darkness fills the area. Normal light, as well as magical light created by spells of a lower level than the slot you used to cast this spell, can’t illuminate the area.
Daylight. Bright light fills the area. Magical darkness created by spells of a lower level than the slot you used to cast this spell can’t extinguish the light.
Energy Protection. Affected creatures in the area have resistance to one damage type of your choice, except for bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing.
Energy Vulnerability. Affected creatures in the area have vulnerability to one damage type of your choice, except for bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing.
Everlasting Rest. Dead bodies interred in the area can’t be turned into undead.
Extradimensional Interference. Affected creatures can’t move or travel using teleportation or by extradimensional or interplanar means.
Fear. Affected creatures are frightened while in the area.
Silence. No sound can emanate from within the area, and no sound can reach into it.
Tongues. Affected creatures can communicate with any other creature in the area, even if they don’t share a common language.

HALLUCINATORY TERRAIN
4th-level illusion
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a stone, a twig, and a bit of green plant)
Duration: 24 hours
You make natural terrain in a 150-foot cube in range look, sound, and smell like some other sort of natural terrain. Thus, open fields or a road can be made to resemble a swamp, hill, crevasse, or some other difficult or impassable terrain. A pond can be made to seem like a grassy meadow, a precipice like a gentle slope, or a rock-strewn gully like a wide and smooth road. Manufactured structures, equipment, and creatures within the area aren’t changed in appearance.
The tactile characteristics of the terrain are unchanged, so creatures entering the area are likely to see through the illusion. If the difference isn’t obvious by touch, a creature carefully examining the illusion can attempt an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your spell save DC to disbelieve it. A creature who discerns the illusion for what it is, sees it as a vague image superimposed on the terrain.

HARM
6th-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
You unleash a virulent disease on a creature that you can see within range. The target must make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, it takes 14d6 necrotic damage, or half as much damage on a successful save. The damage can’t reduce the target’s hit points below 1. If the target fails the saving throw, its hit point maximum is reduced for 1 hour by an amount equal to the necrotic damage it took. Any effect that removes a disease allows a creature’s hit point maximum to return to normal before that time passes.

HASTE
3rd-level transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M (a shaving of licorice root)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Choose a willing creature that you can see within range. Until the spell ends, the target’s speed is doubled, it gains a +2 bonus to AC, it has advantage on Dexterity saving throws, and it gains an additional action on each of its turns. That action can be used only to take the Attack (one weapon attack only), Dash, Disengage, Hide, or Use an Object action.
When the spell ends, the target can’t move or take actions until after its next turn, as a wave of lethargy sweeps over it.

HEAL
6th-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose a creature that you can see within range. A surge of positive energy washes through the creature, causing it to regain 70 hit points. This spell also ends blindness, deafness, and any diseases affecting the target. This spell has no effect on constructs or undead.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 7th level or higher, the amount of healing increases by 10 for each slot level above 6th.

HEALING WORD
1st-level evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
A creature of your choice that you can see within range regains hit points equal to 1d4 + your spellcasting ability modifier. This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.
At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the healing increases by 1d4 for each slot level above 1st.


HEAT METAL
2nd-levei transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,5, M(a piece of iron and a flame)
Duration: Concenlration, up to 1 minute
Choose a manufactured metal object, such as a metal
weapon or a suit of heavy or medium metal armor, that
you can see within range. Vou cause the object to glow
red-hot. Any creature in physical contact with the objecl
takes 2d8 fire damage when you cast the spell. Until the
spell ends, you can use a bonus action on each of your
subsequent turns to cause this damage again.
If a creature is holding or wearing the object and
takes the damage from it, the creature must succeed on
a Constitution saving throw or drop the object if it canolf
it doesn't drop the object, it has disadvantage on attack
rolls and ability checks until the start of your next turno
At Higher Leveis. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd levei or higher, the damage increases by
ld8 for each sIot leveI above 2nd.
HELLISH REBUKE
1st-/evel evocation
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take in response
to being damaged bya creature within 60 feet of you
that you can see
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,5
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou point your finger, and the creature that damaged
you is momentarily surrounded by hellish flames. The
creature must make a Dexterity saving throw. It takes
2dlO fire damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one.
At Higher Leveis. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd levei or higher, the damage increases by
ldl0 for each slot levei above 1st.
HEROES' FEAST
6th-levei conjuration
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,5 , M(a gem-encrusted bowl worth at
least 1,000 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou bring forth a great feast, including magnificent
food and drink. The feast takes I hour to consume and
disappears at the end of that time, and the beneficiai
effects don't set in until this hour is over. Up to twelve
other creatures can partake of the feast.
A creature that partakes of the feast gains several
benefits. The creature is cured of ali diseases and
poison, becomes immune to poison and being
frightened, and makes ali Wisdom saving throws with
advantage. Its hit point maximum also increases by
2dl0, and it gains the same number of hit points. These
benefits last for 24 hours.
HEROISM
1st-levei enchantment
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,5
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Awilling creature you touch is imbued with bravery.
Until the spell ends, the creature is immune to being
frightened and gains temporary hit points equal to
your spellcasting ability modifier at the start of each
of its turns. When the spell ends, the target loses any
remaining temporary hit points from this spell.HASTE
3rd-/evel transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,5, M(a shaving of licorice root)
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
Choose a willing creature that you can see within range.
Until the spell ends, the target's speed is doubled, it
gains a +2 bonus to AC, it has advantage on Dexterity
saving throws, and it gains an additional action on each
of its turns. That aclion can be used only lo lake the
Attack (one weapon attack only), Dash, Disengage, Hide,
or Use an Object aclion.
When lhe spell ends, the target can't move or take
actions until after its next turn, as a wave of lelhargy
sweeps over it.
HEAL
6th-levei evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,5
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose a crealure lhat you can see within range. A
surge of posilive energy washes through the creature,
causing it to regain 70 hit points. This spell also ends
blindness, deafness, and any dise ases affecting the
larget. This spell has no effect on conslrucls or undead.
At Higher Leveis. When you cast this spell using a
spell slol of 7th levei or higher, the amount of healing
increases by 10 for each slot leveI above 6th.
HEALING WORDWhen you cast this spell, you can elect to cause its
magic to opera te in the reverse direction, preventing a
creature of the specified type from leaving the cylinder
and protecting targets outside it.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th leveI or higher, the duration increases by
1 hour for each slot levei above 3rd.
MAGICJAR
6th./evel necromancy
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Self
Components: V,S, M(a gem, crystal, reliquary, or some
other ornamental container worth at least 500 gp)
Duration: Until dispelled
Your body falls into a catatonic state as your soulleaves
it and enters the container you used for the spell's
material component. While your soul inhabits the
container, you are aware of your surroundings as ifyou
were in the container's space. Voucan't move or use
reactions. The only action you can take is to project your
soul up to 100 feet out of the container, either returning
to your living body (and ending the spell) or attempting
to possess a humanoids body.
Voucan attempt to possess any humanoid within
100 feet of you that you can see (creatures warded by a
protection [rom evil and good or magic circIe spell can't
be possessed). The target must make a Charisma saving
throw. On a failure, your soul moves into the target's
body, and the target's soul becomes trapped in the
container. On a success, the target resists your efforts
to possess it, and you can't attempt to possess it again
for 24 hours.
Once you possess a creature's body, you control it.
Your game statistics are replaced by the statistics of the
creature, though you retain your alignment and your
Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores. Vou retain
the benefit of your own class features. Ir the target has
any class leveis, you can't use any of its class features.
Meanwhile, the possessed creature's soul can
perceive from the container using its own senses, but it
can't move or take actions at ali.
While possessing a body, you can use your action to
return from the host body to the container if it is within
100 feet of you, returning the host creature's soul to
its body. If the host body dies while you're in it, the
creature dies, and you must make a Charisma saving
throw against your own spellcasting DC. On a success,
you return to the container if it is within 100 feet of you.
Otherwise, you die.
If the container is destroyed or the spell ends, your
soul immediately returns to your body. If your body is
more than 100 feet away from you or ifyour body is
dead when you attempt to return to it, you die. Ir another
creature's soul is in the container when it is destroyed,
the creature's soul returns to its body if the body is alive
and within 100 feet. Otherwise, that creature dies.
When the spell ends, the container is destroyed.
MAGIC MISSILE
Ist./evel evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou create three glowing darts of magical force. Each
dart hits a creature of your choice that you can see
within range. Adart deals Id4 + I force damage to its
target. The darts ali strike simultaneously, and you can
direct them to hit one creature or severa!.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd levei or higher, the spell creates one
more dart for each slot leveI above 1st.
MAGIC MOUTH
2nd./evel iI1usion (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M(a small bit of honeycomb
and jade dust worth at least 10 gp, which the
spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
Vou implant a message within an object in range, a
message that is uttered when a trigger condition is met.
Choose an object that you can see and that isn't being
worn or carried by another creature. Then speak the
message, which must be 25 words or less, though it
can be delivered over as long as 10 minutes. Finally,
determine the circumstance that will trigger the spell to
deliver your message.
When that circumstance occurs, a magical mouth
appears on the object and recites the message in your
voice and at the same volume you spoke. Ir the object
you chose has a mouth or something that looks like a
mouth (for example, the mouth of a statue), the magical
mouth appears there so that the words appear to come
from the object's mouth. When you cast this spell, you
can have the spell end after it delivers its message, or
it can remain and repeat its message whenever the
trigger occurs.
The triggering circumstance can be as general or as
detailed as you like, though it must be based on visual
or audible conditions that occur within 30 feet of the
object. For example, you could instruct the mouth to
speak when any creature moves within 30 feet of the
object or when a silver bell rings within 30 feet of it.
MAGIC WEAPON
2nd./evel transmutation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Vou touch a nonmagical weapon. Until the spell ends,
that weapon becomes a magic weapon with a +1 bonus
to attack rolls and damage rolls.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th levei or higher, the bonus increases to
+2. When you use a spell slot of 6th leveI or higher, the
bonus increases to +3.

257
1st-levei evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instanlaneous
Acreature of your choice that you can see within range
regains hit points equal to Id4 + your spellcasting
ability modifier. This spell has no effect on undead
or constructs.
At Higher Leveis. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd levei or higher, lhe healing increases by
ld4 for each slol leveI above 1st.
HEAT METAL
2nd-levei transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,5, M(a piece of iron and a flame)
Duration: Concenlration, up to 1 minute
Choose a manufactured metal object, such as a metal
weapon or a suit of heavy or medium metal armor, that
you can see within range. Vou cause the object to glow
red-hot. Any creature in physical contact with the objecl
takes 2d8 fire damage when you cast the spell. Until the
spell ends, you can use a bonus action on each of your
subsequent turns to cause this damage again.
If a creature is holding or wearing the object and
takes the damage from it, the creature must succeed on
a Constitution saving throw or drop the object if it canolf
it doesn't drop the object, it has disadvantage on attack
rolls and ability checks until the start of your next turno
At Higher Leveis. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd levei or higher, the damage increases by
ld8 for each sIot leveI above 2nd.
HELLISH REBUKE
1st-/evel evocation
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take in response
to being damaged bya creature within 60 feet of you
that you can see
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,5
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou point your finger, and the creature that damaged
you is momentarily surrounded by hellish flames. The
creature must make a Dexterity saving throw. It takes
2dlO fire damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one.
At Higher Leveis. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd levei or higher, the damage increases by
ldl0 for each slot levei above 1st.
HEROES' FEAST
6th-levei conjuration
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,5 , M(a gem-encrusted bowl worth at
least 1,000 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou bring forth a great feast, including magnificent
food and drink. The feast takes I hour to consume and
disappears at the end of that time, and the beneficiai
effects don't set in until this hour is over. Up to twelve
other creatures can partake of the feast.
A creature that partakes of the feast gains several
benefits. The creature is cured of ali diseases and
poison, becomes immune to poison and being
frightened, and makes ali Wisdom saving throws with
advantage. Its hit point maximum also increases by
2dl0, and it gains the same number of hit points. These
benefits last for 24 hours.
HEROISM
1st-levei enchantment
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,5
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Awilling creature you touch is imbued with bravery.
Until the spell ends, the creature is immune to being
frightened and gains temporary hit points equal to
your spellcasting ability modifier at the start of each
of its turns. When the spell ends, the target loses any
remaining temporary hit points from this spell.
At Higher Leveis. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 2nd leveI or higher. you can target one
additional creature for each sIot levei above 1st.
HEX
1st-leveI enchantment
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V.S. M(the petrified eye of a newt)
Duration: Concentration. up to 1 hour
Vou place a curse on a creature that you can see within
range. Until the spell ends. you deal an extra Id6
necrotic damage to the target whenever you hit it with
an attack. AIso. choose one ability when you cast the
spell. The target has disadvantage on ability checks
made with the chosen ability.
If the target drops to O hit points before this spell
ends. you can use a bonus action on a subsequent turn
of yours to curse a new creature.
Aremove curse cast on the target ends this spell early.
At Higher Leveis. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd or 4th leveI.you can maintain your
concentration on the spell for up to 8 hours. When you
use a spell slot of 5th levei or higher. you can maintain
your concentration on the spell for up to 24 hours.
HOLD MONSTER
5th-leveI enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V.S. M(a small. straight piece of iron)
Duration: Concentration. up to 1 minute
Choose a creature that you can see within range. The
target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or be
paralyzed for the duration. This spell has no effect on
undead. At the end of each of its turns, the target can
make another Wisdom saving throw. On a success. the
spell ends on the target.
At Higher Leveis. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th levei or higher. you can target one
additional creature for each slot leveI above 5th. The
creatures must be within 30 feet of each other when
you target them.
HOLD PERSON
2nd-leveI enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S. M(a small, straight piece of iron)
Duration: Concentration. up to 1 minute
Choose a humanoid that you can see within range.
The target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw
or be paralyzed for the duration. At the end of each of
its turns. the target can make another Wisdom saving
throw. On a success. the spell ends on the target.
At Higher Leveis. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd levei or higher, you can target one
additional humanoid for each slot leveI above 2nd. The
humanoids must be within 30 feet of each other when
you target them.
HOLY AURA
8th-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V.S. M(a tiny reliquary worth at least
1,000 gp containing a sacred relic, such as a scrap of
cloth from a saint's robe or a piece of parchment from
a religious text)
Duration: Concentration. up to 1 minute
Divine light washes out from you and coalesces
in a soft radiance in a 30-foot radius around you.
Creatures of your choice in that radius when you cast
this spell shed dim light in a 5-foot radius and have
advantage on ali saving throws. and other creatures
have disadvantage on attack rolls against them until
the spell ends. In addition, when a fiend or an undead
hits an affected creature with a melee attack. the aura
flashes with brilliant light. The attacker must succeed
on a Constitution saving throw or be blinded until
the spell ends.
HUNGER OF HADAR
3rd-level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V,S. M(a pickled octopus tentacle)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Vou open a gateway to the dark between the stars, a
region infested with unknown horrors. A 20-foot-radius
sphere of blackness and bitter cold appears. centered
on a point with range and lasting for the duration. This
void is filled with a cacophony of soft whispers and
slurping noises that can be heard up to 30 feet away. No
light, magical or otherwise, can illuminate the area, and
creatures fully within the area are blinded.
The void creates a warp in the fabric of space. and the
area is difficult terrain. Any creature that starts its turn
in the area takes 2d6 cold damage. Any creature that
ends its turn in the area must succeed on a Dexterity
saving throw or take 2d6 acid damage as milky.
otherworldly tentacles rub against it.
HUNTER'S MARK
1st-leveI divination
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Vouchoose a creature you can see within range and
mystically mark it as your quarry. Until the spell ends,
you deal an extra 1d6 damage to the target whenever
you hit it with a weapon attack. and you have advantage
on any Wisdom (Perception) or Wisdom (Survival)
check you make to find it. lf the target drops to O hit
points before this spell ends. you can use a bonus action
on a subsequent turn of yours to mark a new creature.
At Higher Leveis. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd or 4th leveI, you can maintain your
concentration on the spell for up to 8 hours. When you
use a spell slot of 5th levei or higher, you can maintain
your concentration on the spell for up to 24 hours.

HYPNOTIC PATTERN
3rd-level iIIusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: 5, M(a glowing stick of incense or a
crystal viaI filled with phosphorescent material)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Vou create a twisting pattern of colors that weaves
through the air inside a 30-foot cube within range.
The pattern appears for a moment and vanishes. Each
creature in the area who sees the pattern must make
a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature
becomes charmed for the duration. While charmed
by this spell, the creature is incapacitated and has
a speed ofO.
The spell ends for an affected creature if it takes any
damage or if someone e1se uses an action to shake the
creature out of its stupor.
ICE STORM
4th-levei evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V,5, M(a pinch of dust and a few
drops of water)
Duration: Instantaneous
A hail of rock-hard ice pounds to the ground in a
20-foot-radius, 40-foot-high cylinder centered on a
point within range. Each creature in the cylinder must
make a Dexterity saving throw. Acreature takes 2d8
bludgeoning damage and 4d6 cold damage on a failed
save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
Hailstones turn the storm's area of effect into difficult
terrain until the end of your next turno
At Higher Leve/s. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 5th leveI or higher, the bludgeoning damage
increases by ld8 for each slot levei above 4th.
IDENTIFY
1st-levei divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Touch
Components: V,5, M(a pearl worth at least 100 gp and
an owl feather)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou choose one object that you must touch throughout
the casting of the spe11.If it is a magic item or some
other magic-imbued object, you learn its properties
and how to use them, whether it requires attunement
to use, and how many charges it has, if any. Vou learn
whether any spells are affecting the item and what they
are. lf the item was crealed by a spell, you learn which
spell created it.
lf you instead louch a crealure lhroughoullhe casling,
you learn whal spells, if any, are currenlly affecting i!.
ILLUSORY SCRIPT
1st-levei iIIusion (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minule
Range: Touch

Components: 5, M(a lead-based ink worlh alleast 10
gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: 10 days
Vouwrite on parchmenl, paper, or some olher suilable
writing malerial and imbue il wilh a polent illusion lhal
lasls for the duralion.
To you and any crealures you designate when you
casllhe spell, the writing appears normal, written in
your hand, and conveys whalever meaning you intended
when you wrole lhe lex!. To ali olhers, lhe writing
appears as if il were written in an unknown ar magical
scripllhal is uninlelligible. Alternalively, you can cause
lhe wriling lo appear to be an entire1y differenl message,
written in a differenl hand and language, lhough lhe
language must be one you know.
5hould the spell be dispelled, the original scripl and
the illusion bolh disappear.
Acrealure wilh lruesighl can read the
hidden message.
IMPRISONMENT
9th-levei abjuration
Casting Time: 1 minule
Range: 30 feel
Components: V,5, M(a vellum depiclion or a carved
staluette in lhe likeness of the larget, and a special
componenllhal varies according lo lhe version of lhe
spell you choose, worth at least 500 gp per Hit Die
of lhe target)
Duration: Until dispelled
Vou create a magical restraint to hold a creature that
you can see within range. The target must succeed on
a Wisdom saving throw or be bound by the spell; if it
succeeds, it is immune lo this spell ifyou cast it again.
While affected by this spell, the creature doesn't need
to breathe, eat, or drink, and it doesn't age. Divination
spells can't locate or perceive the targe!.
When you cast the spell, you choose one of the
following forms of imprisonment.
Buria/. The target is entombed far beneath the earth
in a sphere of magical force that is just large enough to
contain the targe!. Nothing can pass through the sphere,
nor can any creature teleport or use planar traveI to get
into or out of i!.
The special component for this version of the spell is a
small mithral orb.
Chaining. Heavy chains, firmly rooted in the ground,
hold the target in place. The target is restrained until
the spell ends, and it can't move or be moved by any
means until then.
The special component for this version of the spell is a
fine chain of precious metal.
Hedged Prison. The spell transports the target into
a tiny demiplane that is warded against teleportation
and planar traveI. The demiplane can be a labyrinth, a
cage, a tower, or any similar confined structure or area
of your choice.
The special component for this version of the spell is a
miniature representation of the prison made from jade.
Minimus Containment. The target shrinks to a height
of 1 inch and is imprisoned inside a gemstone ar similar
object. Light can pass through the gemstone normally
(allowing the target to see out and other creatures to see
in), but nothing else can pass through, even by means of
teleportation or planar traveI. The gemstone can't be cut
or braken while the spell remains in effcct.
The special component for this version of the spell
is a large, transparent gemstone, such as a corundum,
diamond, or ruby.
Slumber. The target falls asleep and can't be awoken.
The speciai component for this version of the spell
consists of rare soporific herbs.
Ending the Spe/l. During the casting of the spell,
in any of its versions, you can specify a condition that
will cause the spell to end and release the target. The
condition can be as specific or as elaborate as you
choose, but the DM must agree that the condition is
reasonable and has a likelihood of coming to passo The
conditions can be based on a creature's name, identity,
or deity but otherwise must be based on observable
actions or qualities and not based on intangibles such as
levei, class, or hit points.
A dispel magic spell can end the spell only if it is cast
as a 9th.level spell, targeting either the prison or the
special component used to create it.
Vou can use a particular special component to create
only one prison at a time. If you cast the spell again
using the same component, the target of the first casting
is immediately freed fram its binding.
INCENDIARY CLOUD
8th.level conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A swirling cloud of smoke shot through with white-hot
embers appears in a 20.foot-radius sphere centered on
a point within range. The cloud spreads around corners
and is heavily obscured. It lasts for the duration or until
a wind of moderate or greater speed (at least 10 miles
per hour) disperses it.
When the cloud appears, each creature in it must
make a Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes IOd8
/ire damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on
a successful one. A creature must also make this saving
throw when it enters the spell's area for the /irst time on
a turn or ends its turn there.
The cloud moves 10 feet directly away from you
in a direction that you choose at the start of each
of your turns.
INFLICT WOUNDS
Ist-level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Make a melee spell attack against a creature you can
reach. On a hit, the target takes 3d1O necrotic damage.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd levei or higher, the damage increases by
1d 10 for each slot levei above 1sI.
251
INSECT PLAGUE
5th-levei conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V,S, M(a few grains of sugar, some
kernels of grain, and a smear of fat)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Swarming, biting locusts fill a 20-foot-radius sphere
centered on a point you choose within range, The sphere
spreads around corners. The sphere remains for the
duration, and its area is lightly obscured. The sphere's
area is difficult terrain.
When the area appears, each creature in it must
make a Constitution saving throw. Acreature takes
4d 10 piercing damage on a failed save, ar half as much
damage on a successful one. A creature must also make
this saving throw when it enters the spell's area for the
first time on a turn ar ends its turn there.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th levei ar higher, the damage increases by
Id 10 for each slot levei above 5th.
INVISIBILITY
2nd-leveI ilIusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(an eyelash encased
in gum arabic)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Acreature you touch becomes invisible until the spell
ends. Anything the target is wearing or carrying is
invisible as long as it is on the target's person. The spell
ends for a target that attacks ar casts a spell.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 3rd levei ar higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot levei above 2nd.
jUMP
1st-levei transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(a grasshopper's hind leg)
Duration: 1 minute
Vou touch a creature. The creature's jump distance is
tripled until the spell ends.
KNOCK
2nd-levei transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Choose an object that you can see within range. The
object can be a door, a box, a chest, a set of manacles, a
padlock, ar another object that contains a mundane or
magical means that prevents access.
A target that is held shut bya mundane lock ar that
is stuck or barred becomes unlocked, unstuck, or

unbarred. lf the object has multiple locks, only one of
them is unlocked.
lf you choose a target that is held shut with arcane
lock, that spell is suppressed for 10 minutes, during
which time the target can be opened and shut normally.
When you cast the spell, a loud knock, audible from as
far away as 300 feet, emanates from the target objecl.
LEGEND LORE
5th-levei divination
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V,S, M(incense worth at least 250 gp,
which the spell consumes, and four ivory strips worth
at least 50 gp each)
Duration: Instantaneous
Name or describe a person, place, or object. The spell
brings to your mind a brief summary of the significant
lore about the thing you named. The lore might consist
of current tales, forgotten stories, or even secret lore
that has never been widely known. lf the thing you
named isn't of legendary importance, you gain no
information. The more information you already have
about the thing, the more precise and detailed the
information you receive is.
The information you learn is accurate but might be
couched in figurative language. For example, if you
have a mysterious magic axe on hand, the spell might
yield this information: "Woe to the evildoer whose hand
touches the axe, for even the haft slices the hand of the
evil ones. Only a true Child of Stone, lover and beloved
of Moradin, may awaken the true powers of the axe, and
only with the sacred word Rudnogg on the lips."
LEOMUND'S SECRET CHEST
4th-leveI conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(an exquisite chest, 3 feet by 2 feet
by 2 feet, constructed from rare materiaIs worth at
least 5,000 gp, and a Tiny replica made from the same
materiais worth at least 50 gp)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou hide a chest, and ali its contents, on the Ethereal
Plane. Voumust touch the chest and the miniature
replica that serves as a material component for the spell.
The chest can contain up to 12 cubic feet of nonliving
material (3 feet by 2 feet by 2 feet).
While the chest remains on the Ethereal Plane, you
can use an action and touch the replica to recall the
chesl. lt appears in an unoccupied space on the ground
within 5 feet of you. Vou can send the chest back to the
Ethereal Plane by using an action and touching both the
chest and the replica.
After 60 days, there is a cumulative 5 percent chance
per day that the spell's effect ends. This effect ends if
you cast this spell again, if the smaller replica chest is
destroyed, ar ifyou choose to end the spell as an action.
If the spell ends and the larger chest is on the Ethereal
Plane, it is irretrievably losl.
LEOMUNO'S TINY HUT
3rd-/evel evocation (ritual)
Casting Time: I minute
Range: Self (I O-foot-radius hemisphere)
Components: V, S, M (a small crystal bead)
Duration: 8 hours
A IO-foot-radius immobile dome of force springs into
existenee around and above you and remains stationary
for the duration. The spell ends if you leave its area.
Nine creatures of Medium size or smaller ean fit inside
the dome with you. The spell fails if its area includes a
larger ereature or more than nine ereatures. Creatures
and objeets within the dome when you east this spell
ean move through it freely. Ali other ereatures and
objeets are barred from passing through it. Spells and
other magical effeets ean't extend through the dome or
be east through it. The atmosphere inside the spaee is
eomfortable and dry, regardless of the weather outside.
Until the spell ends, you ean eommand the interior to
beeome dimly lit or dark. The dome is opaque from the
outside, of any eolor you ehoose, but it is transparent
from the inside.
LESSER RESTORATION
2nd-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: I aetion
Range: Toueh
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou toueh a ereature and ean end either one disease or
one eondition afflieting it. The eondition ean be blinded,
deafened, paralyzed, or poisoned.
LEVITATE
2nd-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I aetion
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (either a small leather loop or a
pieee of golden wire bent into a eup shape with a long
shank on one end)
Duration: Coneentration, up to 10 minutes
One ereature or object of your ehoice that you ean see
within range rises vertieally, up to 20 feet, and remains
suspended there for the duration. The spell ean levitate
a target that weighs up to 500 pounds. An unwilling
ereature that sueeeeds on a Constitution saving throw
is unaffected.
The target ean move only by pushing or pulling
against a fixed objeet or surfaee within reaeh (sueh as
a wall or a eeiling), whieh allows it to move as if it were
climbing. Vou ean ehange the target's altitude by up to
20 feet in either direetion on your turno lf you are the
target, you ean move up or down as part of your move.
Otherwise, you can use your aetion to move the target,
whieh must remain within the spelI's range.
When the spell ends, the target lIoats gently to the
ground if it is still aloft.
LIGHT
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time: I aetion
Range: Toueh
Components: V,M(a firelly or phosphorescent moss)
Duration: I hour
Vou touch one objeet that is no larger than lO feet in any
dimensiono Until the spell ends, the objeet sheds bright
light in a 20-foot radius and dim light for an additional
20 feet. The light ean be eolored as you like. Completely
eovering the objeet with something opaque bloeks the
light. The spell ends ifyou east it again or dismiss it
as an aetion.
lf you target an objeet held or worn by a hostile
creature, that ereature must sueeeed on a Dexterity
saving throw to avoid the spell.
LIGHTNING ARROW
3rd-/evel transmutation
Casting Time: I bonus aetion
Range: Sei f
Components: V, S
Duration: Coneentration, up to I minute
The next time you make a ranged weapon attaek during
the spell's duration, the weapon's ammunition, or the
weapon itself if it's a thrown weapon, transforms into
a bolt of lightning. Make the attaek roll as normal. The
target takes 4d8 Iightning damage on a hit, or half
as mueh damage on a miss, instead of the weapon's
normal damage.
Whether you hit or miss, eaeh ereature within 10 feet
of the target must make a Dexterity saving throw. Eaeh
of these ereatures takes 2d8 lightning damage on a
failed save, or half as mueh damage on a sueeessful one.
The pieee of ammunition or weapon then returns to
its normal form.
At Higher Leve/s. When you east this spell using a
spell slot of 4th levei or higher, the damage for both
effeets of the spell inereases by Id8 for eaeh slot
leveI above 3rd.

LIGHTNING BOLT
3rd-/evel evoeation
Casting Time: I aetion
Range: Self (lOO-foot line)
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fur and a rod of amber,
erystal, or glass)
Duration: [nstantaneous
A stroke of Iightning forming a line 100 feet long and 5
feet wide blasts out from you in a direetion you ehoose.
Eaeh ereature in the line must make a Dexterity saving
throw. A ereature takes 8d6 lightning damage on a
failed save, or half as mueh damage on a sueeessful one.
The lightning ignites lIammable objeets in the area
that aren't being worn or earried.
At Higher Leve/s. When you east this spell using a
spell slot of 4th leveI or higher, the damage inereases by
Id6 for eaeh slot levei above 3rd.

LOCATE ANIMALS OR PLANTS
2nd-leveI divinatian (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V,S, M(a bit af fur from a bloodhound)
Duration: Instantaneous
Describe ar name a specific kind of beast ar plant.
Concentrating on the voice of nature in your
surroundings, you learn the direction and distance to
the closest creature or plant of that kind within 5 miles,
if any are present.

LOCATE CREATURE
4th-leveI divination
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V,S, M(a bit of fur fram a bloodhound)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Describe ar name a creature that is familiar to you. Vou
sense the direction to the creature's lacation, as long as
that creature is within 1,000 feet ofyou.lfthe creature
is moving, you know the direction of its mavement.
The spell can locate a specific creature known to
you, ar the nearest creature of a specific kind (such as
a human ar a unicorn), 50 long as you have seen such a
creature up close-within 30 feet-at least once. If the
creature you described ar named is in a different form,
such as being under the effects of a palymarph spell,
this spell doesn't locate the creature.
This spel1 can't locate a creature if running water at
least 10 feet wide blocks a direct path between you and
the creature.

LOCATE OBJECT
2nd-leveI divinatian
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self
Components: V,S, M(a farked twig)
Duration: Cancentration, up to 10 minutes
Describe ar name an object that is familiar to you. Vou
sense the direction to the object's location, as lang as
that object is within 1,000 feet af you. If the object is in
motion, yau know the direction of its movement.
The spell can locate a specific object known to you,
as long as you have seen it up close-within 30 feet-at
least once, Alternatively, the spel1 can locate the nearest
abject of a particular kind, such as a certain kind of
apparel, jewelry, furniture, tool, ar weapon.
This spel1 can't locate an object if any thickness of
lead, even a thin sheet, blocks a direct path between you
and the object.

LONGSTRIDER
1st-leveI transmutatian
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(a pinch of dirt)
Duration: 1 hour
Vou touch a creature. The target's speed increases by 10
feet until the spel1 ends.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spel1 using
a spell slot of 2nd levei ar higher, you can target one
additional creature for each slot leveI above 1st.
MAGEARMOR
1st-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(a piece of cured leather)
Duration: 8 hours
Vou touch a willing creature who isn't wearing armor,
and a pratective magical force surrounds it until the
spel1 ends. The target's base ACbecomes 13 + its
Dexterity modifier. The spel1ends if the target dons
armar ar ifyou dismiss the spell as an action.

MAGE HAND
Conjuration cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: 1 minute
A spectral, floating hand appears at a point you choose
within range. The hand lasts for the duration ar until
you dismiss it as an action. The hand vanishes if it is
ever more than 30 feet away from you ar if you cast
this spel1 again.
Vou can use your action to contraI the hand. Voucan
use the hand to manipulate an object, open an unlocked
doar ar container, stow or retrieve an item from an open
container, ar pau r the contents out of a via!' Vou can
move the hand up to 30 feet each time you use it.
The hand can't atlack, activate magic items, ar carry
more than 10 pounds.

MAGIC CIRCLE
3rd-Ievel abjuratian
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 10 feet
Components: V,S, M(holy water ar powdered
silver and iron worth at least 100 gp, which the
spel1 consumes)
Duration: 1 hour
Vou create a 10-foot-radius, 20-foot-tal1cylinder of
magical energy centered on a point on the ground
that you can see within range. Glowing runes appear
wherever the cylinder intersects with the lIoor ar
other surface.
Choose one ar more of the following types of
creatures: celestiaIs, elementals, fey,fiends, ar undead.
The circle affects a creature of the chosen type in the
fol1owingways:
The creature can't willingly enter the cylinder by
nonmagical means. If the creature tries to use teleportation
ar interplanar traveI to do so, it must first
succeed on a Charisma saving throw.
The creature has disadvantage on attack ral1s against
targets within the cylinder.
Targets within the cylinder can't be charmed, frightened,
ar possessed by the creature.
When you cast this spell, you can elect to cause its
magic to opera te in the reverse direction, preventing a
creature of the specified type from leaving the cylinder
and protecting targets outside it.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th leveI or higher, the duration increases by
1 hour for each slot levei above 3rd.

MAGICJAR
6th./evel necromancy
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Self
Components: V,S, M(a gem, crystal, reliquary, or some
other ornamental container worth at least 500 gp)
Duration: Until dispelled
Your body falls into a catatonic state as your soulleaves
it and enters the container you used for the spell's
material component. While your soul inhabits the
container, you are aware of your surroundings as ifyou
were in the container's space. Voucan't move or use
reactions. The only action you can take is to project your
soul up to 100 feet out of the container, either returning
to your living body (and ending the spell) or attempting
to possess a humanoids body.
Voucan attempt to possess any humanoid within
100 feet of you that you can see (creatures warded by a
protection [rom evil and good or magic circIe spell can't
be possessed). The target must make a Charisma saving
throw. On a failure, your soul moves into the target's
body, and the target's soul becomes trapped in the
container. On a success, the target resists your efforts
to possess it, and you can't attempt to possess it again
for 24 hours.
Once you possess a creature's body, you control it.
Your game statistics are replaced by the statistics of the
creature, though you retain your alignment and your
Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma scores. Vou retain
the benefit of your own class features. Ir the target has
any class leveis, you can't use any of its class features.
Meanwhile, the possessed creature's soul can
perceive from the container using its own senses, but it
can't move or take actions at ali.
While possessing a body, you can use your action to
return from the host body to the container if it is within
100 feet of you, returning the host creature's soul to
its body. If the host body dies while you're in it, the
creature dies, and you must make a Charisma saving
throw against your own spellcasting DC. On a success,
you return to the container if it is within 100 feet of you.
Otherwise, you die.
If the container is destroyed or the spell ends, your
soul immediately returns to your body. If your body is
more than 100 feet away from you or ifyour body is
dead when you attempt to return to it, you die. Ir another
creature's soul is in the container when it is destroyed,
the creature's soul returns to its body if the body is alive
and within 100 feet. Otherwise, that creature dies.
When the spell ends, the container is destroyed.

MAGIC MISSILE
Ist./evel evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou create three glowing darts of magical force. Each
dart hits a creature of your choice that you can see
within range. Adart deals Id4 + I force damage to its
target. The darts ali strike simultaneously, and you can
direct them to hit one creature or severa!.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd levei or higher, the spell creates one
more dart for each slot leveI above 1st.

MAGIC MOUTH
2nd./evel iI1usion (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M(a small bit of honeycomb
and jade dust worth at least 10 gp, which the
spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
Vou implant a message within an object in range, a
message that is uttered when a trigger condition is met.
Choose an object that you can see and that isn't being
worn or carried by another creature. Then speak the
message, which must be 25 words or less, though it
can be delivered over as long as 10 minutes. Finally,
determine the circumstance that will trigger the spell to
deliver your message.
When that circumstance occurs, a magical mouth
appears on the object and recites the message in your
voice and at the same volume you spoke. Ir the object
you chose has a mouth or something that looks like a
mouth (for example, the mouth of a statue), the magical
mouth appears there so that the words appear to come
from the object's mouth. When you cast this spell, you
can have the spell end after it delivers its message, or
it can remain and repeat its message whenever the
trigger occurs.
The triggering circumstance can be as general or as
detailed as you like, though it must be based on visual
or audible conditions that occur within 30 feet of the
object. For example, you could instruct the mouth to
speak when any creature moves within 30 feet of the
object or when a silver bell rings within 30 feet of it.

MAGIC WEAPON
2nd./evel transmutation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Vou touch a nonmagical weapon. Until the spell ends,
that weapon becomes a magic weapon with a +1 bonus
to attack rolls and damage rolls.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th levei or higher, the bonus increases to
+2. When you use a spell slot of 6th leveI or higher, the
bonus increases to +3.

MAJOR IMAGE
3rd-Ievel illusion
Casting Time: I action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S, M(a bit of f1eece)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Voucreate the image of an object, a creature, ar some
other visible phenomenon that is no larger than a
20.foot cube. The image appears at a spot that you
can see within range and lasts for the duration. lt
seems completely real, including sounds, smells, and
temperature appropriate to the thing depicted. Vou
can't create sufficient heat or cold to cause damage, a
sound loud enough to deal thunder damage or deafen a
creature, or a smell that might sicken a creature (like a
troglodyte's stench).
As long as you are within range of the illusion, you
can use your action to cause the image to move to
any other spot within range. As the image changes
location, you can alter its appearance so that its
movements appear natural for the image. For example,
if you create an image of a creature and move it, you
can alter the image so that it appears to be walking.
Similarly, you can cause the illusion to make different
sounds at different times, even making it carry on a
conversation, for example.
Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be an
iIlusion, because things can pass through it. Acreature
that uses its action to examine the image can determine
that it is an iIlusion with a successfullntelligence
(Investigation) check against your spell save De. lf a
creature discerns the illusion for what it is, the creature
can see through the image, and its other sensory
qualities become faint to the creature.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using
a spell slot of 6th leveI or higher, the spelllasts until
dispelled, without requiring your concentration.

MASS CURE WOUNDS
5th.level conjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Awave of healing energy washes out from a point of
your choice within range. Choose up to six creatures
in a 30.foot.radius sphere centered on that point. Each
target regains hit points equal to 3d8 + your spellcasting
ability modifier. This spell has no effect on undead
or constructs.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 6th levei or higher, the healing increases by
Id8 for each slot levei above 5th.

MASS HEAL
9th./evel conjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: lnstantaneous
Af100dof healing energy f10wsfrom you into injured
creatures around you. Vou restore up to 700 hit points,
divided as you choose among any number of creatures
that you can see within range. Creatures healed by
this spell are also cured of ali diseases and any effect
making them blinded or deafened. This spell has no
effect on undead or constructs.

MASS HEALING WORD
3rd.level evocation
Casting Time: I bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
As you call out words of restoration, up to six creatures
ofyour choice that you can see within range regain hit
points equal to Id4 + your spellcasting ability modifier.
This spell has no effect on undead or constructs.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th leveI or higher, the healing increases by
Id4 for each slot levei above 3rd.

MASS SUGGESTION
6th./evel enchantment
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,M(a snake's tongue and either a bit of
honeycomb or a drop of sweet oil)
Duration: 24 hours
Vousuggest a course of activity (limited to a sentence
or two) and magically influence up to twelve creatures
of your choice that you can see within range and that
can hear and understand you. Creatures that can't be
charmed are immune to this effect. The suggestion must
be worded in such a manner as to make the course of
action sound reasonable. Asking the creature to stab
itself, throw itself onto a spear, immolate itself, or do
some other obviously harmful act automatically negates
the effect of the spell.
Each target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a
failed save, it pursues the course of action you described
to the best of its ability. The suggested course of action
can continue for the entire duration. If the suggested
activity can be completed in a shorter time, the spell
ends when the subject finishes what it was asked to do.
Vou can also specify conditions that will trigger a
special activity during the duration. For example, you
might suggest that a group of soldiers give ali their
money to the first beggar they meet. If the condition isn't
met before the spell ends, the activity isn't performed.
lf you or any of your companions damage a creature
affected by this spell, the spell ends for that creature.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using
a 7th.leveI spell slot, the duration is 10 days. When
you use an 8th.level spell slot, the duration is 30 days.
When you use a 9th.level spell slot, the duration is a
year and a day.

MAZE
8th./eveI conjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to \O minutes
Vou banish a creature that you can see within range into
a labyrinthine demiplane. The target remains there for
the duration or until it escapes the maze.
The target can use its action to altempt to escape.
When it does so, it makes a DC 20 Intelligence check. If
it succeeds, it escapes, and lhe spell ends (a minotallr or
goristro demon automatically succeeds).
When the spell ends, the target reappears in the
space it left or, if that space is occupied, in the nearest
unoccupied space.

MELD INTO STONE
3rd-/evel transmutation (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 8 hours
Vou step into a stone object or surface large enough to
fully contain your body, melding yourself and ali the
equipment you carry with the stone for the dllration.
Using your movement, you step into the stone at a point
you can touch. Nothing of your presence remains visible
or otherwise detectable by nonmagical senses.
While merged with the stone, you can't see what
occurs outside it, and any Wisdom (Perception) checks
you make to hear sounds outside it are made with
disadvantage. Vou remain aware of the passage of
time and can cast spells on yourself while merged in
the stone. Vou can use your movement to leave the
stone where you entered it, which ends the spell. Vou
otherwise can't move.
Minor physical damage to the stone doesn't harm
you, but its partial destruction or a change in its shape
(to the extent that YOllno longer fit within it) expels YOll
and deals 6d6 bludgeoning damage to YOll.The stone's
complete destruction (or transmutation into a different
sllbstance) expels YOlland deals 50 bludgeoning damage
to you. If expelled, you fali prone in an lInoccupied space
cIosest to where you first entered.

MELF'S ACID ARROW
2nd-levei evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M(powdered rhubarb leaf and an
adder's stomach)
Duration: 1nstantaneous
A shimmering green arrow streaks toward a targel
within range and bllrsts in a spray of acid. Make a
ranged spell attack against the target. On a hit, the
target takes 4d4 acid damage immediately and 2d4 acid
damage aI the end of its next turno On a miss, the arrow
splashes the target with acid for half as much of the
initial damage and no damage at the end of its next turno
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spellllsing a
spell slot of 3rd levei or higher, lhe damage (both initial
and later) increases by 1d4 for each slot levei above 2nd.

MENDING
Transmutation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Touch
Components: V. S, M (two lodestones)
Duration: Instantaneous
This spell repairs a single break or tear in an object
you touch, such as a broken chain link. two halves of
a broken key, a torn c1oak, or a leaking wineskin. As
long as the break or tear is no larger than 1 foot in
any dimension, you mend it. leaving no trace of the
former damage.
This spell can physically repair a magic item
or construct, but the spell can't restore magic to
such an object.

MESSAGE
Transmutation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a short piece of copper wire)
Duration: I round
Vou point your finger toward a creature within range
and whisper a message. The target (and only the target)
hears the message and can reply in a whisper that only
you can hear.
Vou can cast this spell through solid objects if you
are familiar with the target and know it is beyond
the barrier. Magical silence, 1 foot of stone, 1 inch of
common metal, a thin sheet of lead, or 3 feet of wood
blocks the spell. The spell doesn't have to follow a
straight line and can travei freely around corners or
throllgh openings.

METEOR SWARM
9th-levei evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 1 mile
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
Blazing orbs of fire plummet to the ground at four
different points YOllcan see within range. Each creature
in a 40-foot-radius sphere centered on each point you
choose must make a Dexterity saving throw. The sphere
spreads around corners. A creature takes 20d6 fire
damage and 20d6 bludgeoning damage on a failed
save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A
creature in lhe area of more than one fiery burst is
affected only once.
The spell damages objects in the area and ignites
flammable objects that aren't being worn or carried.

MIND BLANK
8th-levei abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: 24 hOllrs
Unti! the spell ends, one willing creatllre you tOllch is
immune to psychic damage, any effect lhat would sense
its emotions or read its thoughts, divination spells, and
the charmed condition. The spell even foils wish spells
and spells or effects of similar power used to affect the
target's mind or to gain information about the target.

MINOR ILLUSION
lIlusion cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: 5, M(a bit of fleece)
Duration: 1 minute
Voucreate a sound or an image of an object within
range that lasts for the duration. The illusion also ends if
you dismiss it as an action or cast this spell again.
lf you create a sound, its volume can range from a
whisper to a scream. It can be your voice, someone
else's voice, a lion's roar, a beating of drums, or any
other sound you choose. The sound continues unabated
throughout the duration, or you can make discrete
sounds at different times before the spell ends.
lf you create an image of an object-such as a chair,
muddy footprints, or a small chest-it must be no larger
than a 5-foot cube. The image can't create sound, light,
smell, or any other sensory effect. Physical interaction
with the image reveals it to be an illusion, because
things can pass through it.
lf a creature uses its action to examine the sound or
image, the creature can determine that it is an illusion
with a successful Intelligence (Investigation) check
against your spell save De. If a creature discerns the
illusion for what it is, the illusion becomes faint to
the creature.

MIRAGE ARCANE
7th-levei illusion
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 5ight
Components: V,5
Duration: 10 days
Vou make terrain in an area up to 1 mile square
look, sound, smell, and even feellike some other sort
of terrain. The terrain's general shape remains the
same, however. Open fields or a road could be made to
resemble a swamp, hill, crevasse, or some other difficult
or impassable terrain. Apond can be made to seem like
a grassy meadow, a precipice like a gentle slope, or a
rock-strewn gully like a wide and smooth road.
5imilarly, you can alter the appearance of structures,
or add them where none are present. The spell doesn't
disguise, conceal, or add creatures.
The illusion includes audible, visual, tactile, and
olfactory elements, so it can turn clear ground into
difficult terrain (or vice versa) or otherwise impede
movement through the area. Any piece of the illusory
terrain (such as a rock or stick) that is removed from the
spell's area disappears immediately.
Creatures with truesight can see through the illusion
to the terrain's true form; however, ali other elements
of the illusion remain, so while the creature is aware of
the illusion's presence, the creature can still physically
interact with the illusion.

MIRROR IMAGE
2nd-levei illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5elf
Components: V,5
Duration: 1 minute
Three illusory duplicates of yourself appear in your
space. Until the spell ends, the duplicates move with
you and mimic your actions, shifting position so it's
impossible to track which image is real. Vou can use
your action to dismiss the illusory duplicates.
Each time a creature targets you with an attack during
the spell's duration, roll a d20 to determine whether the
attack instead targets one of your duplicates.
lf you have three duplicates, you must roll a 6 or
higher to change the attack's target to a duplicate. With
two duplicates, you must roll an 8 or higher. With one
duplicate, you must roll an 11 or higher.
A duplicate's ACequals 10 + your Dexterity modifier.
If an attack hits a duplicate, the duplicate is destroyed. A
duplicate can be destroyed only by an attack that hits it.
It ignores ali other damage and effects. The spell ends
when ali three duplicates are destroyed.
Acreature is unaffected by this spell if it can't see, if it
relies on senses other than sight, such as blindsight, or
if it can perceive illusions as false, as with truesight.

MISLEAD
5th-levei illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 5elf
Components: 5
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Vou become invisible at the same time that an illusory
double of you appears where you are standing. The
double lasts for the duration, but the invisibility ends if
you attack or cast a spell.
Vou can use your action to move your illusory double
up to twice your speed and make it gesture, speak, and
behave in whatever way you choose.
Vou can see through its eyes and hear through its ears
as ifyou were located where it is. On each of your turns
as a bonus action, you can switch from using its senses
to using your own, or back again. While you are using its
senses, you are blinded and deafened in regard to your
own surroundings.

MISTY STEP
2nd-levei conjuration
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 5elf
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Briefly surrounded by silvery mist, you teleport up to 30
feet to an unoccupied space that you can see.

MODIFY MEMORY
5th-leveI enehantment
Casting Time: I aetion
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, 5
Duration: Coneentration, up to I minute
Vou attempt to reshape another ereature's memories.
One ereature that you ean see must make a Wisdom
saving throw. If you are fighting the ereature, it has
advantage on the saving throw. On a failed save, the
target beeomes eharmed by you for the duration. The
eharmed target is ineapacitated and unaware of its
surroundings, though it ean still hear you. If it takes any
damage or is targeted by another spell, this spell ends,
and none of the target's memories are modified.
While this eharm lasts, you ean affeet the target's
memory of an event that it experieneed within the last
24 hours and that lasted no more than 10 minutes. Vou
ean permanently eliminate ali memory of the event,
allow the target to reeall the event with perfeet c!arity
and exaeting detail, ehange its memory of the details of
the event, or ereate a memory of some other event.
Vou must speak to the target to deseribe how
its memories are affeeted, and it must be able to
understand your language for the modified memories to
take root. Its mind fills in any gaps in the details of your
description. If the spell ends before you have finished
describing the modified memories, the creature's
memory isn't altered. Otherwise, the modified memories
take hold when the spell ends.
A modified memory doesn't neeessarily affect how a
creature behaves, particularly if the memory contradicts
the creature's natural inc!inations, alignment, or beliefs.
An illogical modified memory, such as implanting a
memory of how much the creature enjoyed dousing
itself in acid, is dismissed, perhaps as a bad dream. The
DM might deem a modified memory toa nonsensical to
affect a creature in a significant manner.
Aremove eurse or greater restoration spell cast on the
target restores the creature's true memory.
At Higher LeveIs. If you east this spell using a spell
slot of 6th leveI or higher, you can alter the target's
memories of an event that took place up to 7 days ago
(6th levei), 30 days ago (7th levei), I year ago (8th levei),
or any time in the creature's past (9th levei).

MOONBEAM
2nd-leveI evoeation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, 5, M (severa I seeds of any moonseed
plant and a pieee of opaleseent feldspar)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A silvery beam of pale light shines down in a 5-footradius,
40-foot-high cylinder centered on a point within
range. Until the spell ends, dim light fills the cylinder.
When a creature enters the spell's area for the first
time on aturo or starts its turo there, it is engulfed
in ghostly liames that cause searing pain, and it must
make a Constitution saving throw. It takes 2dlO radiant
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a
successfu I one.
A shapechanger makes its saving throw with
disadvantage. Ir it fails, it also instantly reverts to its
original form and can't assume a different form until it
leaves the spell's light.
On each of your turos after you cast this spell, you can
use an action to move the beam 60 feet in any direction.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd levei or higher, the damage increases by
ldlO for each slot leveI above 2nd.

MORDENKAINEN'S FAITHFUL HOUND
4th-leveI eorijuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, 5, M(a tiny silver whistle, a pieee of
bone, and a thread)
Duration: 8 hours
Vou conjure a phantom watchdog in an unoccupied
space that you can see within range, where it remains
for the duration, until you disrniss it as an action, or until
you move more than 100 feet away from it.
The hound is invisible to ali creatures except you
and can't be harmed. When a 5mall or larger creature
comes within 30 feet of it without first speaking the
password that you specify when you cast this spell, the
hound starts barking loudly. The hound sees invisible
creatures and can see into the Ethereal Plane. It
ignores illusions.
At the start of each of your turos, the hound attempts
to bite one creature within 5 feet of it that is hostile
to you. The hound's attack bonus is equal to your
spellcasting ability modifier + your proficiency bonus.
On a hit, it deals 4d8 piercing damage.

MORDENKAINEN'S MAGNIFICENT MANSION
7th-leveI eonjuration
Casting Time: I minute
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, 5, M(a miniature portal carved from
ivory, a small piece of polished marble, and a tiny
silver spoon, each item worth at least 5 gp)
Duration: 24 hours
Vou conjure an extradimensional dwelling in range
that lasts for the duration. Vou choose where its one
entrance is located. The entrance shimmers faintly
and is 5 feet wide and 10 feet tall. Vou and any creature
you designate when you cast the spell can enter the
extradimensional dwelling as long as the portal remains
open. Vou can open or c!ose the portal if you are within
30 feet of it. While c!osed, the portal is invisible.
Beyond the portal is a rnagnificent foyer with
numerous ehambers beyond. The atmosphere is c!ean,
fresh, and warm.
Vou can create any 1I00r plan you like, but the space
can't exceed 50 cubes, each cube being 10 feet on
each side. The place is furoished and decorated as
you choose. lt contains sufficient food to serve a ninecourse
banquet for up to 100 people. A staff of 100
near-transparent servants attends ali who enter. Vou
decide the visual appearance of these servants and their
attire. They are completely obedient to your orders.
Each servant can perform any task a normal human
servant could perform, but they can't attack or take
any action that would directly harm another creature.
Thus the servants can fetch things, clean, mend, fold
clothes. light tires. serve food, pour wine, and so on.
The servants can go anywhere in the mansion but
can't leave it. Furnishings and other objects created
by this spell dissipate into smoke if removed from the
mansion. When the spell ends, any creatures inside
the extradimensional space are expelled into the open
spaces nearest to the entrance.

MORDENKAINEN'S PRIVATE SANCTUM
4th.level abjuration
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M(a thin sheet of lead, a piece
of opaque glass. a wad of cotton or cloth, and
powdered chrysolite)
Duration: 24 hours
Vou make an area within range magically secure. The
area is a cube that can be as small as 5 feet to as large
as 100 feel on each side. The spelllasts for the duralion
or unlil you use an aclion to dismiss it.
When you cast the spell, you decide whal sorl of
securily the spell provides, choosing any or ali of the
following properties:
Sound can't pass through lhe barrier aI the edge of
the warded area.
The barrier of the warded area appears dark and foggy,
preventing vision (including darkvision) through il.
Sensors created by divinalion spells can't appear
inside the protected area or pass through the barrier
aI ils peri meter.
Creatures in the area can't be targeted by divinalion
spells.
Nothing can teleport into or oul of lhe warded area.
Planar traveI is blocked within the warded area.
Casling this spell on the same spot every day for a
year makes this effect permanent.
At Higher Leve/s. When you cast this spell using a
spell slol of 5th levei or higher, you can increase the size
of the cube by 100 feet for each slot leveI beyond 4th.
Thus you could protect a cube that can be up lO 200 feet
on one side by using a spell slot of 5th leveI.

MORDENKAINEN'S SWORD
7th-Je.-elevocalion
Casting Time: 1 aclion
Range: 60 feet
Componenls: V. 5, M(a minialure platinum sword wilh
a grip and pommel of copper and zinc, worth 250 gp)
Duration: Concentralion, up to 1 minute
Vou create a sword-shaped plane of force that hovers
within range. It lasts for the duration.
When the sword appears, you make a melee spell
attack against a targel ofyour choice within 5 feet ofthe
sword. On a hit. the target takes 3d 10 force damage.
Until the spell ends, you can use a bonus action on each
of your turns to move the sword up to 20 feet to a spot
you can see and repeat this attack against the same
target or a different one.

MOVE EARTH
6th-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (an iron blade and a small bag
containing a mixture of soils-c1ay, loam, and sand)
Duration: Concentration, up to 2 hours
Choose an area of terrain no larger than 40 feet on a
side within range. Vou can reshape dirt, sand, or c1ay
in the area in any manner you choose for the duration.
Vou can raise or lower the area's e1evation, create or fill
in a trench, erect or f1atten a wall, or form a pillar. The
extent of any such changes can't exceed half the area's
largest dimensiono So, if you affect a 40-foot square,
you can create a pillar up to 20 feet high, raise or lower
the square's e1evation by up to 20 feet, dig a trench up
to 20 feet deep, and so on. It takes 10 minutes for these
changes to complete.
At the end of every 10 minutes you spend
concentrating on the spell, you can choose a new area of
terrain to affecl.
Because the terrain's transformation occurs slowly,
creatures in the area can't usually be trapped or injured
by the ground's movemenl.
This spell can't manipulate natural stone or
stone construction. Rocks and structures shift to
accommodate the new terrain. Ir the way you shape
the terrain would make a structure unstable, it
might collapse.
Similarly, this spell doesn't directly affect plant
growth. The moved earth carries any plants along with il.

NONDETECTlON
3rd-Ievel abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of diamond dust
worth 25 gp sprinkled over the target, which the
spell consumes)
Duration: 8 hours
For the duration, you hide a target that you touch
from divination magic. The target can be a willing
creature or a place or an object no larger than 10
feet in any dimensiono The target can't be targeted by
any divination magic or perceived through magical
scrying sensors.

NYSTUL'S MAGIC AURA
2nd-leveI illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M(a small square of silk)
Duration: 24 hours
Vou place an illusion on a creature or an object
you touch so that divination spells reveal false
information about il. The target can be a willing
creature or an object that isn't being carried or worn by
another creature.
When you cast the spell, choose one or both of the
following effects. The effect lasts for the duration. Ir you
cast this spell on the same creature or object every day
for 30 days, placing the same effect on It each time, the
illusion lasts until it is dispelled.
False Aura. Vou change the way the target appears
to spells and magical effects, such as detect magic,
that detect magical auras. Vou can make a nonmagical
object appear magical, a magical object appear
nonmagical, or change the object's magical aura so that
it appears to belong to a specific school of magic that
you choose. When you use lhis effect on an object, you
can make the false magic apparent to any creature that
handles the item.
Mask. Vou change the way the target appears to spells
and magical effects that detect creature types, such as a
paladin's Divine Sense or the trigger of a symbol spe11.
Vou choose a creature type and other spells and magical
effects treat the target as if it were a creature of that
type or of that alignmenl.

OTlLUKE'S FREEZING SPHERE
6th-leveI evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 300 feet
Components: V, S, M (a small crystal sphere)
Duration: Instantaneous
A frigid globe of cold energy streaks from your fingertips
to a point of your choice within range, where it explodes
in a 60-foot-radius sphere. Each creature within the
area must make a Constitution saving throw. On a
failed save, a creature takes IOd6 cold damage. On a
successful save, it takes half as much damage.
Ir the globe strikes a body of water or a liquid that is
principally water (not inc1uding water-based creatures),
it freezes the liquid to a depth of 6 inches over an area
30 feet square. This ice lasts for I minute. Creatures
that were swimming on the surface of frozen water are
trapped in the ice. A trapped creature can use an action
to make a Strength check against your spell save DC
to brea k free.
Vou can refrain from firing the globe after completing
lhe spcll, if you wish. A small globe about the size of
a sling stone, cool to the touch, appears in your hand.
At any time, you or a creature you give the globe to
can throw the globe (to a range of 40 feet) or hurl it
with a sling (to the sling's normal range). It shatlers
on impact, with lhe same effect as the normal casting
of the spell. Vou can also set the globe down without
shattering il. After 1 minute, if the globe hasn't already
shattered, it explodes.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 7th levei or higher, lhe damage increases by
ld6 for each slot levei above 6th.

OTILUKE'S RESILIENT SPHERE
4th-levei evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M(a hemispherical piece of
clear crystal and a matching hemispherical piece
of gum arabic)
Duration: Concentration. up to I minute
Asphere of shimmering force encloses a creature
ar object of Large size ar smaller within range. An
unwilling creature must make a Dexterity saving
throw. On a failed save. the creature is enclosed for
the duration.
Nothing-not physical objects. energy. ar other spell
effects-can pass through the barrier. in ar out. though
a creature in the sphere can breathe there. The sphere
is immune to ali damage. and a creature or object inside
can't be damaged by attacks or effects originating from
outside, nor can a creature inside the sphere damage
anything outside it.
The sphere is weightless and just large enough to
contain the creature or object inside. An enclosed
creature can use its action to push against the sphere's
walls and thus roll the sphere at up to half the creature's
speed. Similarly, the globe can be picked up and moved
by other creatures.
Adisintegrate spell targeting the globe destroys it
without harming anything inside it.

OTTO'S IRRESISTIBLE DANCE
6th-levei enchantment
Casting Time: I action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Concentration. up to I minute
Choose one creature that you can see within range. The
target begins a comic dance in place: shuffling, tapping
its feet, and capering for the duration. Creatures that
can't be charmed are immune to this spell.
A dancing creature must use ali its movement to
dance without leaving its space and has disadvantage
on Dexterity saving throws and attack rolls. While
the target is affected by this spell, other creatures
have advantage on attack rolls against it. As an
action, a dancing creature makes a Wisdom saving
throw to regain control of itself. On a successful save.
the spell ends.

PASS WITHOUT TRACE
2nd-levei abjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: Self
Components: V.S, M(ashes from a burned leaf of
mistletoe anel a sprig of spruce)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Aveil of shadows and silence radiates from you,
masking you and your companions from detection.
For the duration. each creature you choose within 30
feet of you (including you) has a +10 bonus to Dexterity
(Stealth) checks and can't be tracked except by magical
means. Acreature that receives this bonus leaves
behind no tracks ar other traces of its passage.

PASSWALL
5th-levei transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V.S. M(a pinch of sesame seeds)
Duration: I hour
A passage appears at a point of your choice that you
can see on a wooden. plaster. or stone surface (such as
a wall, a ceiling, or a floor) within range, and lasts for
the duration. Vouchoose the opening's dimensions: up
to 5 feet wide. 8 feet tall, and 20 feet deep. The passage
creates no instability in a structure surrounding it.
When the opening disappears, any creatures or
objects still in the passage created by the spell are safely
ejected to an unoccupied space nearest to the surface on
which you cast the spell.

PHANTASMAL FORCE
2nd-levei i11usion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V.S. M(a bit of fleece)
Duration: Concentration. up to I minute
Voucraft an illusion that takes root in the mind of a
creature that you can see within range. The target must
make an Intelligence saving throw. On a failed save, you
create a phantasmal object, creature. or other visible
phenomenon of your choice that is no larger than a
lO-foot cube and that is perceivable only to the target
for the duration. This spell has no effect on undead
ar constructs.
The phantasm includes sound, temperature. and other
stimuli, also evident only to the creature.
The target can use its action to examine the phantasm
with an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your
spell save DC. If the check succeeds, the target realizes
that the phantasm is an illusion, and the spell ends.
While a target is affected by the spell, the target treats
the phantasm as if it were real. The target rationalizes
any illogical outcomes from interacting with the
phantasm. For example. a target attempting to walk
across a phantasmal bridge that spans a chasm falls
once it steps anta the bridge. ]f the target survives the
fali, it still believes that the bridge exists and comes up
with some other explanation for its fall-it was pushed,
it slipped, ar a strong wind might have knocked it off.
An affected target is so convinced of the phantasm's
reality that it can even take damage from the illusion. A
phantasm created to appear as a creature can attack the
target. Similarly. a phantasm created to appear as tire. a
pool of acid. ar lava can burn the target. Each round on
your turn. the phantasm can deal Id6 psychic damage
to the target if it is in the phantasm's area ar within 5
feet of the phantasm, provided that the illusion is of a
creature ar hazard that could logically deal damage.
such as by attacking. The target perceives the damage
as a type appropriate to the illusion.

PHANTASMAL KILLER
4th-leveI illusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Vou tap into the nightmares of a creature you can see
within range and create an illusory manifestation of its
deepest fears, visible only to that creature. The target
must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save,
the target becomes frightened for the duration. At the
start of each of the target's turns before the spell ends,
the target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw
ar take 4d 10 psychic damage. On a successful save,
the spell ends.
At Higher Leve/s. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 5th levei ar higher, the damage increases by
ldlO for each slot levei above 4th.

PHANTOM STEED
3rd-/evel iIIusion (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: 1 hour
A Large quasi-real, horselike creature appears on
the ground in an unoccupied space ofyour choice
within range. Vou decide the creature's appearance,
but it is equipped with a saddle, bit. and bridle. Any
of the equipment created by the spell vanishes in a
puff of smoke if it is carried more than 10 feet away
from the steed.
For the duration, you or a creature you choose can
ride the steed. The creature uses the statistics for a
riding horse, except it has a speed of 100 feet and can
travei 10 miles in an hour, or 13 miles at a fast pace.
When the spell ends. the steed gradually fades. giving
the rider 1 minute to dismount. The spell ends if you use
an action to dismiss it ar if the steed takes any damage.

PLANARALLY
6th-leveI conjuration
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou beseech an otherworldly entity for aid. The being
must be known to you: a god. a primordial, a demon
prince, ar some other being of cosmic power. That entity
sends a celestial, an elemental. ar a fiend loyal to it to
aid you, making the creature appear in an unoccupied
space within range. Ifyou know a specific crcature's
name. you can speak that name when you cast this spell
to request that creature, though you might get a different
creature anyway (DM's choice).
When the creature appears. it is under no compulsion
to behave in any particular way. Vou can ask the
creature to perform a service in exchange for payment,
but it isn't obligcd to do so. The rcquested task could
range from simple (fly us across the chasm, or hclp us
fight a battle) to complex (spy on our enemies. or protect
us during our foray into the dungeon). Vou must be
abJe to communicate with the creature to bargain for
its services.
Payment can take a variety of forms. A celestial might
require a sizable donation of gold ar magic items to
an allied temple. while a fiend might demand a living
sacrifice or a gift of treasure. Some creatures might
exchange their service for a quest undertaken by you.
As a rule of thumb, a task that can be measured in
minutes requires a payment worth 100 gp per minute. A
task measured in hours requires 1,000 gp per hour. And
a task measured in days (up to 10 days) requires 10.000
gp per day. The DM can adjust these payments based on
the circumstances under which you cast the spel!. If the
task is aligned with the creature's ethos, the payment
might be halved or even waived. Nonhazardous tasks
typically require only half the suggested payment, while
especially dangerous tasks might require a greater gift.
Creatures rarely accept tasks that seem suicida!'
After the creature completes the task, or when the
agreed-upon duration of service expires, the creature
returns to its home plane after reporting back to you.
if appropriate to the task and if possible. ]f you are
unable to agree on a price for the creature's service, the
creature immediately returns to its home plane.
A creature enlisted to join your group counts as
a member of it, receiving a full share of experience
points awarded.

PLANAR BINDING
5th-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: 60 feet
Components: V. S. M (a jewel worth at least 1.000 gP.
which the spell consumes)
Duration: 24 hours
With this spell, you attempt to bind a celestial. an
ele mental. a fey. or a fiend to your service. The creature
must be within range for the entire casting of the spel!.
(Typically. the creature is first summoned into the center
of an inverted magie eircle in arder to keep it trapped
while this spell is cast.) At the completion of the casting,
the target must make a Charisma saving throw. On a
failed save, it is bound to serve you for the duration. If
the creature was summoned ar created by another spell.
that spell's duration is extended to match the duration
of this spel!.
A bound creature must follow your instructions to the
best of its ability. Vou might command the creature to
accompany you on an adventure. to guard a location. or
to deliver a message. The creature obeys the letter of
your instructions. but if the creature is hostil e to you. it
strives to twist your words to achieve its own objectives.
]f the creature carries out your instructions completely
before the spell ends, it travels to you to report this fact
if you are on the same plane of existence. If you are on a
different plane of existence. it returns to the place where
you bound it and remains there until the spell ends.
At Higher Leve/s. When YOllcast this spellllsing a
spell slot of a higher levei, the duration increases to 10
days with a 6th-levei slot, to 30 days with a 7th-levei slot.
to 180 days with an 8th-levei slot. and to a year and a
day with a 9th-levei spell slot.

PLANE SHIFT
7th-levei conjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(a forked, metal rod worth at least
250 gp, attuned to a particular plane of existence)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou and up to eight willing creatures who link hands in
a circle are transported to a different plane of existence.
Vou can specify a target destination in general terms,
such as the City of Brass on the Elemental Plane of
Fire or the palace of Dispater on the second levei of the
Nine Hells, and you appear in or near that destination.
Ir you are trying to reach the City of Brass, for example,
you might arrive in its Street of Steel, before its Gate of
Ashes, or looking at the city from across the Sea of Fire,
at the DM's discretion.
Alternatively, ifyou know the sigil sequence of a
teleportation circle on another plane of existence, this
spell can take you to that circle. Ir the teleportation
circle is too small to hold ali the creatures you
transported, they appear in the closest unoccupied
spaces next to the circle.
Voucan use this spell to banish an unwilling creature
to another plane. Choose a creature within your reach
and make a melee spell attack against it. On a hit, the
creature must make a Charisma saving throw. Ir the
creature fails this save, it is transported to a random
location on the plane of existence you specify. A creature
so transported must find its own way back to your
current plane of existence.

PLANT GROWTH
3rd-/evel transmutation
Casting Time: I action or 8 hours
Range: 150 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: lnstantaneous
This spell channels vitality into plants within a specific
area. There are two possible uses for the spell, granting
either immediate or long-term benefits.
If you cast this spell using I action, choose a point
within range. Ali normal plants in a 100-foot radius
centered on that point become thick and overgrown. A
creature moving through the area must spend 4 feet of
movement for every I foot it moves.
Voucan exclude one or more areas of any size within
the spell's area from being affected.
If you cast this spell over 8 hours, you enrich the
land. Ali plants in a half-mile radius centered on a point
within range become enriched for I year. The plants
yield twice the normal amount of food when harvested.

POISON SPRAY
Conjuration cantrip
Casting Time: I action
Range: 10 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou extend your hand toward a creature you can see
within range and project a puff of noxious gas from your
paIm. The creature must succeed on a Constitution
saving throw ar take Idl2 poison damage.
This spell's damage increases by Idl2 when you reach
5th leveI (2dI2), 11th levei (3dI2), and 17th leveI (4dI2).

POLYMORPH
4th-levei transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V,S, M(a caterpillar cocoon)
Duration: Concentration, up to I hour
This spell transforms a creature that you can see
within range into a new formoAn unwilling creature
must make a Wisdom saving throw to avoid the
effect.Ashapechanger automatically succeeds on this
saving throw.
The transformation lasts for the duration, or until
the target drops to O hit points ar dies. The new form
can be any beast whose challenge rating is equal to or
less than the target's (or the target's leveI, if it doesn't
have a challenge rating). The target's game statistics,
including mental ability scores, are replaced by the
statistics of the chosen beast. It retains its alignment
and personality.
The target assumes the hit points of its new formo
When it reverts to its normal form, the creature
returns to the number of hit points it had before it
transformed. If it reverts as a result of dropping to
O hit points, any excess damage carries over to its
normal formoAs long as the excess damage doesn't
reduce the creature's normal form to O hit points, it isn't
knocked unconscious.
The creature is limited in the actions it can perform by
the nature of its new form, and it can't speak, cast spells,
ar take any other action that requires hands ar speech.
The target's gear melds into the new formoThe
creature can't activate, use, wield, or otherwise benefit
from any of its equipment.

POWER WORD HEAL
9th-levei evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Awave of healing energy washes over the creature
you touch. The target regains ali its hit points. If the
creature is charmed, frightened, paralyzed, ar stunned,
the condition ends. If the creature is prone, it can use its
reaction to stand up. This spell has no effect on undead
ar constructs.

POWER WORD KILL
9th-levei enchantment
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Vouutter a word of power that can compel one creature
you can see within range to die instantly. lf the
creature you choose has 100 hit points or fewer. it dies.
Otherwise. the spell has no effect.

POWER WORD STUN
8th-levei enchantment
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Vouspeak a word of power that can overwhelm the
mind of one creature you can see within range. leaving
it dumbfounded. lf the target has 150 hit points or fewer.
it is stunned. Otherwise. the spell has no effect.
The stunned target must make a Constitution saving
thraw at the end of each of its turns. On a successful
save. this stunning effect ends.

PRAYER OF HEALING
2nd-leveI evocation
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Up to six creatures of your choice that you can see
within range each regain hit points equal to 2d8 +your
spellcasting ability moditier. This spell has no effect on
undead or constructs.
At Higher Leve/s. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd levei or higher. the healing increases by
ld8 for each slot leveI above 2nd.

PRESTIDIGITATION
Transmutation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 10 feet
Components: V.S
Duration: Up to I hour
This spell is a minor magical trick that novice
spellcasters use for practice. Voucreate one of the
following magical effects within range:
Vou create an instantaneous. harmless sensory effect.
such as a shower of sparks. a puff of wind. faint musical
notes. or an odd odor.
Vou instantaneously light or snuff out a candle. a
torch. or a small camptire.
Vou instantaneously dean or soil an object no larger
than 1 cubic fool.
Vouchill. warm. or flavor up to I cubic foot of nonliving
material for I hour.
Voumake a color. a small mark. or a symbol appear
on an object ar a surface for I hour.
Vou create a nonmagical trinket or an iIlusory image
that can tit in your hand and that lasts until the end of
your next turno
lfyou cast this spell multiple times. YOll can have IIp to
three of its non-instantaneous effects aclive at a time.
and you can dismiss such an effect as an action.

PRISMATIC SPRAY
7th.level evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Self (60-foot cone)
Components: V.S
Duration: Instantaneous
Eight multicolored rays of light flash fram your hand.
Each ray is a different color and has a different power
and purpose. Each creature in a 60-foot cone must
make a Dexterity saving thraw. For each target. roll a d8
to determine which color ray affects il.
1. Red. The target takes IOd6 tire damage on a failed
save. or half as much damage on a successful one.
2. Orange. The target takes IOd6 acid damage on a
failed save. or half as much damage on a successful one.
3. Yellow. The target takes IOd6lightning damage on a
failed save. or half as much damage on a successful one.
4. Green. The target takes IOd6 poison damage on a
failed save. or half as much damage on a successful one.
5. B/ue. The target takes IOd6 cold damage on a failed
save, or half as much damage on a successful one.
6.Indigo. On a failed save. the target is restrained.
lt must then make a Constitution saving thraw at the
end of each of its turns. If it successfully saves three
times. the spell ends. If it fails its save three times.
it permanently turns to stone and is subjected to the
petritied condition. The successes and failures don't
need to be consecutive; keep track of both until the
target collects three of a kind.
7. Vio/et, On a failed save, the target is blinded. lt
must then make a Wisdom saving throw at the start of
your next turnoAsuccessful save ends the blindness. lf
it fails that save, the creature is transported to another
plane of existence of the DM's choosing and is no longer
blinded. (Typically, a creature that is on a plane that isn't
its home plane is banished home. while other creatures
are usually cast into the Astral or Ethereal planes.)
8. Specia/. The target is struck by two rays. Roll twice
more, rerolling any 8.

PRISMATIC WALL
9th-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V.S
Duration: 10 minutes
A shimmering, multicolored plane of light forms a
vertical opaque wall-up to 90 feet long. 30 feet high.
and I inch thick-centered on a point you can see
within range. Alternatively, you can shape the wall into
a sphere up to 30 feet in dia meter centered on a point
you choose within range. The wall remains in place for
the duration.lfyou position the wall so that it passes
through a space occupied by a creature. the spell fails.
and your action and the spell slot are wasted.
The wall sheds bright light out to a range of 100
feet and dim light for an additional 100 feel. Vouand
creatures you designate at the lime you cast the spell
can pass through and remain near the wall without
harm. If another creature that can see the wall moves to
within 20 feet of it or starts its tum there. the creature
must succeed 00 a Coostitutioo saviog throw or become
blioded for I mioute.
The wall coosists of seveo layers. each with a differeot
color. Wheo a creature attempts to reach ioto or pass
through the wall, it does so ooe layer at a time through
ali the wall's layers. As it passes or reaches through
each layer, the creature must make a Dexterity saviog
throw or be affected by that layer's properties as
described below.
The wall cao be destroyed, also ooe layer at a time, io
order from red to violet, by meaos specific to each layer.
Ooce a layer is destroyed, it remaios so for the duratioo
of the spell. Arod of cancellation destroys a prismatic
wall, but ao antimagic field has 00 effect 00 it.
1. Red. The creature takes IOd6 fire damage 00 a
failed save, or half as much damage 00 a successful ooe.
While this layer is io place, ooomagical raoged attacks
cao't pass through the wall. The layer cao be destroyed
by dealiog at least 25 cold damage to it.
2. Orange. The creature takes IOd6 acid damage 00
a failed save, or half as much damage 00 a successful
ooe. While this layer is io place, magical raoged attacks
cao't pass through the wall. The layer is destroyed by
a stroog wiod.
3. YeJIow. The creature takes lOd6 lightoiog damage
00 a failed save, or half as much damage 00 a successful
ooe. This layer cao be destroyed by dealiog at least 60
force damage to it.
4. Green. The creature takes lOd6 poisoo damage 00
a failed save, ar half as much damage 00 a successful
ooe. Apasswall spell, or aoother spell of equal or
greater levei that cao opeo a portal 00 a solid surface,
destrays this layer.
5. Blue. The creature takes IOd6cold damage 00 a
failed save, or half as much damage 00 a successful ooe.
This layer cao be destroyed by dealiog at least 25 fire
damage to it.
6. Jndigo. 00 a failed save, the creature is restraioed.
11 must theo make a Coostitutiao saviog throw at the
eod of each of its turns. lf it successfully saves three
times, the spell eods. lf it fails its save three times,
it permaoeotly turos to stooe aod is subjected to the
petrified cooditioo. The successes aod failures doo't
need to be coosecutive; keep track of both uotil the
creature collects three of a kiod.
While this layer is io place, spells cao't be cast
through the wall. The layer is destroyed by bright light
shed by a day/ight spell or a similar spell of equal or
higher leveI.
7. Violet. 00 a failed save, the creature is blioded. 11
must theo make a Wisdom saviog throw at the start of
your oext turnoAsuccessful save eods the bliodoess. lf
it fails that save, the creature is traosported to aoother
plaoe of the DM's choosiog aod is 00 looger blioded.
(Typically,a creature that is 00 a plaoe that iso't its
home plaoe is baoished home, while other creatures
are usually cast ioto the Astral or Ethereal plaoes.) This
layer is destroyed bya dispel magic spell or a similar
spell of equal or higher leveI that cao eod spells aod
magical effects.

PRODUCE FLAME
Conjuration cantrip
Casting Time: I actioo
Range:Self
Components: V,S
Duration: lO mioutes
A flickeriog flame appears io your hand. The flame
remaios there for the duration aod harms oeither you
oor your equipmeot. The flame sheds bright light in a
10-foot radius aod dim light for an additiooal 10 feet.
The spell ends ifyou dismiss it as ao action or ifyou
cast it again.
Voucao also attack with the flame, although doing so
eods the spell. Wheo you cast this spell, or as ao action
00 a later turn, you cao hurl the flame at a creature
withio 30 feet of you. Make a raoged spell attack. 00 a
hit, the target takes Id8 fire damage.
This spell's damage iocreases by Id8 wheo you reach
5th levei (2d8), 11th levei (3d8), aod 17th levei (4d8).

PROGRAMMED ILLUSION
6th.level illusion
Casting Time: I actioo
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S, M(a bit of fleece and jade dust worth
at least 25 gp)
Duration: Until dispelled
Vou create ao ilIusioo of ao object, a creature, ar
some other visible pheoomeooo within raoge that
activates wheo a specific cooditioo occurs. The ilIusioo
is imperceptible uotil theo. 11 must be 00 larger thao a
30-foot cube, aod you decide wheo you cast the spell
how the illusioo behaves aod what souods it makes. This
scripted performaoce cao last up to 5 mioutes.
Wheo the cooditioo you specify occurs, the illusioo
spriogs ioto existeoce aod performs io the maooer you
described. Ooce the ilIusioo fioishes performiog, it
disappears aod remaios dormaot for 10 mioutes. After
this time, the ilIusioo cao be activated agaio.
The triggeriog cooditioo cao be as geoeral or as
detailed as you like, though it must be based 00 visual or
audible cooditioos that occur withio 30 feet of the area.
For example, you could create ao illusioo of yourself
to appear aod warn off others who attempt to opeo a
trapped door, or you could set the illusioo to trigger ooly
wheo a creature says the correct word or phrase.
Physical ioteractioo with the image reveals it to be ao
illusioo, because thiogs cao pass through it. Acreature
that uses its actioo to examioe the image cao determioe
that it is ao illusioo with a successfullotelligeoce
(f ovestigatioo) check agaiost your spell save DC. lf a
creature discerns the illusioo for what it is, the creature
cao see through the image, aod aoy noise it makes
souods hollow to the creature.

PROJECT IMAGE
7th-levei iIlusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 500 miles
Components: V,S, M(a small replica of you made from
materiais worth at least 5 gp)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 day
Vou create an illusory copy of yourself that lasts for
the duration. The copy can appear at any location
within range that you have seen before, regardless of
intervening obstacles. The illusion Iooks and sounds
like you but is intangible. Ir the illusion takes any
damage, it disappears, and the spell ends.
Vou can use your action to move this illusion up to
twice your speed, and make it gesture, speak, and
behave in whatever way you choose. It mimics your
mannerisms perfectly.
Vou can see through its eyes and hear through its
ears as if you were in its space. On your turn as a bonus
action, you can switch from using its senses to using
your own, or back again. While you are using its senses,
you are blinded and deafened in regard to your own
surroundings.
Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be an
illusion, because things can pass through it.A creature
that uses its action to examine the image can determine
that it is an illusion with a successful Intelligence
(Investigation) check against your spell save DC. If a
creature discerns the illusion for what it is, the creature
can see through the image, and any noise it makes
sounds hollow to the creature.

PROTECTION FROM ENERGY
3rd-/evel abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
For the duration, the willing creature you touch has
resistance to one damage type of your choice: acid, cold,
fire, lightning, or thunder.

PROTECTION FROM EVIL AND GOOD
1st-levei abjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(holy water or powdered silver
and iron, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Concentration up to 10 minutes
Until the spell ends, one willing creature you
touch is protected against certain types of
creatures: aberrations, celestiais, elementals, fey,
fiends, and undead.
The protection grants several benefits. Creatures of
those types have disadvantage on attack rolls against
the targel. The target also can't be charmed, frightened,
or possessed by them. Ir the target is already charmed,
frightened, or possessed by such a creature, the target
has advantage on any new saving throw against the
relevant effecl.

PROTECTlON FROM POISON
2nd-levei abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S
Duration: I hour
Vou touch a creature. If it is poisoned, you neutralize the
poison, If more than one poison afllicts the target, you
neutralize one poison that you know is present, or you
neutralize one at random,
For the duration, the target has advantage on saving
throws against being poisoned, and it has resistance to
poison damage.

PURIFY FOOD AND DRINK
1st-levei transmutation (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 10 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Ali nonmagical food and drink within a 5-foot-radius
sphere centered on a point of your choice within range is
purified and rendered free of poison and disease.

RAISE DEAD
5th-levei necromancy
Casting Time: I hour
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(a diamond worth at least 500 gp,
which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou return a dead creature you touch to life, provided
that it has been dead no longer than 10 days. Ir the
creature's soul is both willing and at liberty to rejoin the
body, the creature returns to life with I hit poinl.
This spell also neutralizes any poisons and cures
nonmagical diseases that affected the creature at the
time it died. This spell doesn't, however, remove magical
diseases, curses, or similar effects; if these aren't first
removed prior to casting the spell, they take effect when
the creature returns to life. The spell can't return an
undead creature to life.
This spell closes ali mortal wounds, but it doesn't
restore missing body parts. Ir the creature is lacking
body parts or organs integral for its survival-its head,
for instance-the spell automatically fails.
Coming back from the dead is an ordeal. The target
takes a -4 penalty to ali attack rolls, saving throws, and
ability checks. Every time the target finishes a long rest,
the penalty is reduced by 1 until it disappears.

RARY'S TELEPATHIC BOND
5th-levei divination (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M(pieces of eggshell from two
different kinds of creatures)
Duration: I hour
Vouforge a telepathic link among up to eight willing
creatures of your choice within range, psychically
The reincarnated creature recalls its former life
and experiences. It retains the capabilities it had in its
original form, except it exchanges its original race for
the new one and changes its racial traits accordingly.
Vou touch a creature and stimulate its natural healing
ability. The target regains 4d8 + 15 hit points. For the
duration of the spell, the target regains I hit point at the
start of each of its turns (10 hit points each minute).
The target's severed body members (fingers, legs,
tails, and so on), if any, are restored after 2 minutes.
If you have the severed part and hold it to the stump,
the spell instantaneously causes the limb to knit
to the stump.

REMOVE CURSE
3rd./evel abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S
Duration: Instantaneous
At your touch, all curses affecting one creature ar
object end. If the object is a cursed magic item, its curse
remains, but the spell breaks its owner's attunement to
the object so it can be removed ar discarded.

REINCARNATE
5th./evel transmutation
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V, 5, M(rare oils and unguents worth at
least 1,000 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou touch a dead humanoid ar a piece of a dead
humanoid. Provided that the creature has been dead no
longer than 10 days, the spell forms a new adult body
for it and then calls the soul to enter that body. If the
target's soul isn't free or willing to do so, the spell fails.
The magic fashions a new body for the creature
to inhabit, which likely causes the creature's race to
change. The DM rolls a dlOO and consults the following
table to determine what form the creature takes when
restored to life, ar the DM chooses a formo
Raee
Dragonborn
Dwarf, hill
Dwarf, mountain
Elf, dark
Elf, high
Elf, wood
Gnome, forest
Gnome, rock
Half.elf
Haif.ore
Halfiing,lightfoot
Haifiing, stout
Human
Tiefiing
dlOO
01-04
05-13
14-21
22-25
26-34
35-42
43-46
47-52
53-56
57-60
61-68
69-76
77-96
97-00

RAY OF ENFEEBLEMENT
2nd./evel necromancy
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, 5
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A black beam of enervating energy springs fram your
finger toward a creature within range. Make a ranged
spell attack against the target. On a hit, the target deals
only half damage with weapon attacks that use 5trength
until the spell ends.
At the end of each of the target's turns, it can make
a Constitution saving throw against the spell. On a
success, the spell ends.

RAY OF FROST
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, 5
Duration: Instantaneous
A frigid beam of blue-white light streaks toward a
creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack
against the target. On a hit, it takes ld8 cold damage,
and its speed is reduced by 10 feet until the start of
your next turno
The spell's damage increases by Id8 when you reach
5th levei (2d8), 11th levei (3d8), and 17th levei (4d8).

RAY OF SICKNESS
1st-leveI necromancy
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, 5
Duration: Instantaneous
A ray of sickening greenish energy lashes out toward
a creature within range. Make a ranged spell attack
against the target. On a hit, the target takes 2d8 poison
damage and must make a Constitution saving throw.
On a failed save, it is also poisoned until the end of
your next turno
At Higher Leve/s. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd levei ar higher, the damage increases by
ld8 for each slot levei above 1st.
linking each creature to all the others for the duration.
Creatures with Intelligence scores of 2 ar less aren't
affected by this spell.
Until the spell ends, the targets can communicate
telepathically thraugh the bond whether ar not they have
a common language. The communication is possible
over any distance, though it can't extend to other planes
of existence.
REGENERATE
7th-levei transmutation
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Touch
Components: V, 5, M (a prayer wheel and holy water)
Duration: 1 hour

RESlSTANCE
Abjuration cantrip
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(a minialure doak)
Duration: Concenlralion, up lo I minule
Voulouch one willing crealure. Once before lhe spell
ends, lhe largel can roll a d4 and add lhe number
ralled lo one saving lhraw of ils choice. It can rall
lhe die before or afler making lhe saving lhraw. The
spelllhen ends.

RESURRECTION
7th-leveI necromancy
Casting Time: I hour
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(a diamond worlh alleasl 1,000
gp, which lhe spell consumes)
Duration: Inslanlaneous
Vou louch a dead crealure lhal has been dead for no
more than a cenlury, lhal didn'l die of old age, and lhal
isn'l undead. If ilS soul is free and willing, lhe largel
relurns lo life with ali ils hil poinls.
This spell neulralizes any poisons and cures normal
diseases affticling lhe creature when il died. It doesn'l,
however, remove magical diseases. curses, and lhe like;
if such effecls aren'l removed prior lo casling the spell,
lhey affticl lhe largel on ils relurn lo life.
This spell doses ali morlal wounds and reslores any
missing body paris.
Coming back from lhe dead is an ordeal. The largel
lakes a -4 penally lOali allack rolls, saving lhrows, and
abilily checks. Every lime lhe largel finishes a long resl,
the penally is reduced by I unlil il disappears.
Casling lhis spelllo reslore life lOa crealure lhat has
been dead for one year or longer laxes you greally. Unlil
you finish a long resl, you can'l casl spells again, and
you have disadvanlage on ali allack rolls, abilily checks,
and saving lhrows.

REVERSE GRAVITY
7th-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I aclion
Range: 100 feel
Components: V,S, M(a lodeslone and iran filings)
Duration: Concenlralion, up lO I minule
This spell reverses gravily in a 50-fool-radius, 100-
fool high cylinder cenlered on a poinl wilhin range. Ali
crealures and objecls thal aren'l somehow anchored lo
the ground in lhe area fali upward and reach lhe lop of
lhe area when you casllhis spell. Acrealure can make a
Dexlerily saving thraw lo grab onlo a fixed objecl il can
reach, lhus avoiding lhe falI.
lf some solid objecl (such as a ceiling) is encounlered
in lhis fali, faIling objecls and crealures slrike il juSl as
lhey would during a normal downward falI. If an objecl
or crealure reaches lhe lop of lhe area wilhoul slriking
anylhing, il remains lhere, oscillaling slighlly, for
lhe duralion.
AI lhe end of lhe duralion, affecled objecls and
crealures fali back down.

REVIVIFY
3rd-level conjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(diamonds worlh 300 gp, which
lhe spell consumes)
Duration: Inslanlaneous
Vou louch a crealure lhal has died wilhin lhe lasl
minule. Thal crealure relurns lo life wilh I hil poinl.
This spell can'l relurn lo life a crealure lhal has died of
old age, nor can il reslore any missing body parIs.

ROPE TRICK
2nd-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I aclion
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(powdered corn exlracl and a
lwisted loop of parchmenl)
Duration: I hour
Vou touch a length of rape lhat is up lo 60 feellong.
One end of lhe rope then rises inlo lhe air unlillhe
whole rope hangs perpendicular lo lhe ground. AI lhe
upper end of the rope, an invisible enlrance opens lo an
exlradimensional space lhallasls unlillhe spell ends.
The extradimensional space can be reached by
dimbing lo lhe top of lhe rope. The space can hold as
many as eighl Medium or smaller creatures. The rope
can be pulled inlo lhe space, making lhe rape disappear
from view oulside lhe space,
Allacks and spells can'l crass lhrough lhe enlrance
into or oul of lhe exlradimensional space, bullhose
inside can see oul of il as if lhrough a 3-foOl-by-5-fool
window cenlered on lhe rope.
Anylhing inside lhe exlradimensional space drops oul
when lhe spell ends.

SACRED FLAME
Evocation cantrip
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feel
Components: V,S
Duration: Inslanlaneous
Flame.like radiance descends on a creature lhal you
can see wilhin range. The largel musl succeed on a
Dexterily saving throw or take Id8 radianl damage. The
largel gains no benefil from cover for lhis saving lhrow.
The spell's damage increases by Id8 when you reach
51h levei (2d8), Illh levei (3d8), and 171hleveI (4d8).

SANCTUARY
Ist./evel abjuration
Casting Time: I bonus aclion
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M(a small silver mirror)
Duration: I minule
Vouward a crealure within range againsl allack. Unlil
lhe spell ends, any crealure who largels lhe warded
crealure wilh an allack or a harmful spell musl firsl
make a Wisdom saving lhrow. On a failed save, the
creature musl choose a new largel or lose lhe allack
or spell. This spell doesn't protect the warded creature
from area effects, such as the explosion of a fireball.
If the warded creature makes an attack or casts a spell
that affects an enemy creature, this spell ends.
On a successful save. the target isn't affected. and you
can't use this spell against it again for 24 hours.
On a failed save. the spell creates an invisible sensor
within 10 feet of the target. Vou can see and hear through
the sensor as if you were there. The sensor moves with
lhe target, remaining within 10 feet of it for the duration.
A creature that can see invisible objects sees the sensor
as a luminous orb about the size of your fist.
Instead of targeting a creature. you can choose a
location you have seen before as the target of this spell.
When you do, the sensor appcars al that location and
doesn't move.

SCORCHING RAY
2nd./evel evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V. S
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou create three rays of fire and hurJ them at targets
within range. Vou can hurJ them at one target or several.
Make a ranged spell attack for each ray. On a hit, the
target takes 2d6 fire damage.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd leveI or higher. you create one additional
ray for each slot leveI above 2nd.
Save Modifier
-2
-4
-10
Save Modifier
+s
+0
-s
Knowledge
Secondhand (you have heard of the target)
Firsthand (you have met the target)
Familiar (you know the target well)
Connection
Likeness or picture
Possession ar garment
Body parto lock of hair. bit of nail, or the like

SCRYING
5th-leveI divination
Casting Time: 10 minutes
Range: Self
Components: V. S. M (a focus worth at least 1.000 gp.
such as a crystal ball, a silver mirror, or a font filled
with holy water)
Duration: Concentration. up to la minutes
Vou can see and hear a particular creature you choose
that is on the same plane of existence as you. The target
must make a Wisdom saving throw, which is modified
by how well you know the target and the sort of physical
connection you have to it. Jf a target knows you're
casting this spell, it can fail the saving throw voluntarily
if it wants to be observed.


SEARING SMITE
1st-leveI evocation
Casting Time: I bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
The next time you hit a creature with a melee weapon
attack during the spell's duration, your weapon flares
with white.hot intensity, and the attack deals an extra
Id6 tire damage to the target and causes the target to
ignite in flames. At the start of each of its turns until
the spell ends, the target must make a Constitution
saving throw. On a failed save, it takes Id6 tire damage.
On a successful save, the spell ends. lf the target or a
creature within 5 feet of it uses an action to put out the
flames, or if some other effect douses the flames (such
as the target being submerged in water), the spell ends.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd leveI or higher, the initial extra damage
dealt by the attack increases by Id6 for each slot
leveI above 1st.

SEE INVISIBILITY
2nd./eveI divination
Casting Time: I action
Range: SeIf
Components: V,S, M(a pinch of tale and a small
sprinkling of powdered silver)
Duration: I hour
For the duration, you see invisible creatures and objects
as if they were visible, and you can see into the Ethereal
Plane. Ethereal creatures and objects appear ghostly
and translucent.

SEEMING
5th./evel iJJusion
Casting Time: I action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: 8 hours
This spell allows you to change the appearance of any
number of creatures that you can see within range. Vou
give each target you choose a new, iIIusory appearance.
An unwilling target can make a Charisma saving throw,
and if it succeeds, it is unaffected by this spell.
The spell disguises physical appearance as well as
clothing, armor, weapons, and equipment. Vou can make
each creature seem I foot shorter or taller and appear
thin, fat, or in between. Voucan't change a target's body
type, so you must choose a form that has the same
basic arrangement of limbs. Otherwise, the extent of
the illusion is up to you. The spell lasts for the duration,
unless you use your action to dismiss it sooner.
The changes wrought by this spell fail to hold up to
physical inspection. For example, ifyou use this spell
to add a hat to a creature's outtit, objects pass through
the hat, and anyone who touches it would feel nothing
or would feel the creature's head and hair. If you use
this spell to appear thinner than you are, the hand of
someone who reaches out to touch you would bump into
you while it was seemingly still in midair.
Acreature can use its action to inspect a target and
make an Intelligence (Investigation) check against your
spell save DC. If it succeeds, it becomes aware that the
target is disguised.

SENDING
3rd./eveI evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Unlimited
Components: V,S, M(a short piece of tine copper wire)
Duration: I round
Vou send a short message of twenty-tive words or
less to a creature with which you are familiar. The
creature hears the message in its mind, recognizes
you as the sender if it knows you, and can answer in a
like manner immediately. The spell enables creatures
with Intelligence scores of at least I to understand the
meaning of your message.
Voucan send the message across any distance and
even to other planes of existence, but if the target is on a
different plane than you, there is a 5 percent chance that
the message doesn't arrive.

SEQUESTER
7th-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(a powder composed of diamond,
emerald, ruby, and sapphire dust worth at least 5,000
gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled
By means of this spell, a willing creature or an object
can be hidden away, safe from detection for the
duration. When you cast the spell and touch the target,
it becomes invisible and can't be targeted by divination
spells or perceived through scrying sensors created by
divination spells.
If the target is a creature, it falls into a state of
suspended animation. Time ceases to flow for it, and it
doesn't grow older.
Vou can set a condition for the spell to end early.
The condition can be anything you choose, but it
must occur or be visible within I mile of the target.
Examples include "after 1,000 years" or "when the
tarrasque awakens." This spell also ends if the target
takes any damage.

SHAPECHANGE
9th-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Self
Components: V,S, M(a jade circlet worth at least 1,500
gp, which you must place on your head before you
cast the spell)
Duration: Concentration, up to I hour
Vou assume the form of a different creature for the
duration. The new form can be of any creature with
a challenge rating equal to your leveI or lower. The
creature can't be a construct or an undead, and you
must have seen the sort of creature at least once. Vou
transform into an average example of that creature, one
without any c1ass leveis or the Spellcasting trait.
Vour game statistics are replaced by the statistics
of the chosen creature, though you retain your
alignment and Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma
scores. Vou also retain ali of your skill and saving
throw proficiencies, in addition to gaining those of the
creature. If the creature has the same proficiency as you
and the bonus Iisted in its statistics is higher than yours,
use the creature's bonus in place of yours. Vou can't use
any legendary actions or lair actions of the new formo
Vou assume the hit points and Hit Dice ofthe new
formo When you revert to your normal form, you
return to the number of hit points you had before you
transformed. ]f you revert as a result of dropping to
Ohit points, any excess damage carries over to your
normal formo As long as the excess damage doesn't
reduce your normal form to Ohit points, you aren't
knocked unconscious.
Vou retain the benefit of any features from your c1ass,
race, or other source and can use them, provided that
your new form is physically capable of doing so. Vou
can't use any special senses you have (for example,
darkvision) unless your new form also has that sense.
Vou can only speak if the creature can normally speak.
When you transform, you choose whether your
equipment falls to the ground, merges into the new
form, or is worn by it. Worn equipment functions as
normal. The DM determines whether it is practical for
the new form to wear a piece of equipment, based on
the creature's shape and size. Vour equipment doesn't
change shape or size to match the new form, and any
equipment that the new form can't wear must either fali
to the ground or merge into your new formo Equipment
that merges has no effect in that state.
During this spell's duration, you can use your action to
assume a different form following the same restrictions
and rules for the original form, with one exception; if
your new form has more hit points than your current
one, your hit points remain at their current value.

SHATTER
2nd.level evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M(a chip of mica)
Duration: Instantaneous
A sudden loud ringing noise, painfully intense, erupts
from a point of your choice within range. Each creature
in a lO-foot-radius sphere centered on that point must
make a Constitution saving throw. Acreature takes
3d8 thunder damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one. Acreature made of
inorganic material such as stone, crystal, or metal has
disadvantage on this saving throw.
A nonmagical object that isn't being worn or carried
also takes the damage if it's in the spcll's arca.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd levei or higher, the damage increases by
ld8 for each slot levei above 2nd.

SHIELD
1st-levei abjuration
Casting Time: 1 reaction, which you take when you are
hit by an attack or targeted by the magic missile spell
Range: SeI f
Components: V,S
Duration: 1 round
An invisible barrier of magical force appears and
protects YOU. Until the start ofyour next turn, you have a
+5 bonus to AC, including against the triggering attack,
and you take no damage from magic missile.

SHIELD OF FAITH
1st-levei abjuration
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M(a small parchment with a bit of
holy text writlen on it)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
A shimmering field appears and surrounds a creature
ofyour choice within range, granting it a +2 bonus to AC
for the duration.

SHILLELAGH
Transmutation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M(mistletoe, a shamrock leaf, and a
c1ub or quarterstaff)
Duration: 1 minute
The wood of a c1ub or quarterstaff you are holding is
imbued with nature's power. For the duration, you can
use your spellcasting ability instead of Strength for
the atlack and damage rolls of melee attacks using
that weapon, and the weapon's damage die becomes
a d8. The weapon also becomes magical, if it isn't
already. The spell ends if you cast it again or if you let go
of the weapon.

SHOCKING GRASP
Evocat/on cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Lightning springs from your hand to deliver a shock to
a creature you try to touch. Make a melee spell atlack
against the target. Vou have advantage on the attack roll
if the target is wearing armor made of metal. On a hit,
the target takes ld8lightning damage, and it can't take
reactions until the start of its next turno
The spell's damage incrcases hy ld8 when you reach
5th levei (2d8), 11th levei (3d8), and 17th levei (4d8).

SILENCE
2nd-leveI iIlusion (ritl1al)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
For the duration, no sound can be created within or
pass through a 20-foot-radius sphere centered on a
point you choose within range. Any creature or object
entirely inside the sphere is immune to thunder damage,
and creatures are deafened while entirely inside it.
Casting a spell that includes a verbal component is
impossible there.

SILENT IMAGE
1st-/evel iJlusion
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M (a bit of fleece)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Vou create the image of an object, a creature, or some
other visible phenomenon that is no larger than a 15-foot
cube. The image appears at a spot within range and
lasts for the duration. The image is purely visual; it isn't
accompanied by sound, smell, or other sensory effects.
Vou can use your action to cause the image to move to
any spot within range. As the image changes location,
you can alter its appearance so that its movements
appear natural for the image. For example, if you create
an image of a creature and move it, you can alter the
image so that it appears to be walking.
Physical interaction with the image reveals it to be an
illusion, because things can pass through it. A creature
that uses its action to examine the image can determine
that it is an illusion with a successful Intelligence
(Investigation) check against your spell save DC. If a
creature disceros the illusion for what it is, the creature
can see through the image.

SIMULACRUM
7th-levei illusion
Casting Time: 12 hours
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (snow or ice in quantities
sufficient to made a life-size copy of the duplicated
creature; some hair, fingeroail clippings, or other
piece of that creature's body placed inside the snow
or ice; and powdered ruby worth 1,500 gp, sprinkled
over the duplicate and consumed by the spell)
Duration: Until dispelled
Vou shape an illusory duplica te of one beast or
humanoid that is within range for the entire casting
time of the spell. The duplicate is a creature, partially
real and formed from ice or snow, and it can take
actions and otherwise be affected as a normal creature.
It appears to be the same as the original, but it has half
the creature's hit point maximum and is formed without
any equipment. Otherwise, the illusion uses ali the
statistics of the creature it duplicates.
The simulacrum is friendly to you and creatures you
designa te. It obeys your spoken commands, moving
and acting in accordance with your wishes and acting
on your turo in combat. The simulacrum lacks the
ability to learo or beco me more powerful, so it never
increases its levei or other abilities, nor can it regain
expended spell slots.
If the simulacrum is damaged, you can repair it in an
alchemicallaboratory, using rare herbs and minerais
worth 100 gp per hit poim it regains. The simulacrum
lasts until it drops to O hit points, at which point it
reverts to snow and melts instantly.
If you cast this spell again, any currently
active duplicates you created with this spell are
instantly destrayed.

SLEEP
1st-levei enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M(a pinch of fine sand, rose petals,
or a cricket)
Duration: 1 minute
This spell sends creatures into a magical slumber.
RolI 5d8; the total is how many hit points of creatures
this spell can affect. Creatures within 20 feet of
a point you choose within range are affected in
ascending order of their currem hit points (ignoring
unconscious creatures).
Starting with the creature that has the lowest current
hit points, each creature affected by this spell falls
unconscious until the spell ends, the sleeper takes
damage, or someone uses an action to shake or slap the
sleeper awake. Subtract each creature's hit points fram
the total before moving on to the creature with the next
lowest hit points. A creature's hit points must be equal
to or less than the remaining total for that creature
to be affected.
Undead and creatures immune to being charmed
aren't affected by this spell.
At Hil1her LeveIs. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd levei or higher, roll an additional 2d8 for
each slot levei above 1st.

SLEET STORM
3rd-/evel conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of dust and a few
drops of water)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Until the spell ends, freezing rain and sleet fali in a
20-foot-tall cylinder with a 40-foot radius centered on
a point you choose within range. The area is heavily
obscured, and exposed flames in the area are doused.
The ground in the area is covered with slick ice,
making it difficult terrain. When a creature enters the
spell's area for the first time on aturo or starts its turo
there, it must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed
save, it falls prone.
If a creature is concentrating in the spell's area, the
creature must make a successful Constitution saving
throw against your spell save DC or lose concentration.

SLOW
3rd-Ievel transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M(a drop of molasses)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
Vou alter time around up to six creatures ofyour
choice in a 40-foot cube within range, Each target must
succeed on a Wisdom saving throw ar be affected by
this spell for the duration.
An affected target's speed is halved, it takes a -2
penalty to AC and Dexterity saving throws, and it can't
use reactions. On its turn, it can use elther an action ar
a bonus action, not both. Regardless of the creature's
abilities ar magic items, it can't make more than one
melee ar ranged attack during its turno
If the creature attempts to cast a spell with a casting
time of 1 action, roll a d20. On an 11 ar higher, the spell
doesn't take effect until the creature's next turn, and the
creature must use its action on that turn to complete the
spell. If it can't, the spell is wasted.
A creature affected by this spell makes another
Wisdom savlng throw at the end of its turno On a
successful save, the effect ends for lI.

SPARE THE DYING
Necromancy cantrip
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou touch a living creature that has Ohit points. The
creature becomes stable. This spell has no effect on
undead ar constructs.
SPEAK WITH ANIMALS
1st-leveI divination (ritual)
Casting Time: I action
Range: Sei f
Components: V, S
Duration: 10 minutes
Vou gain the ability to comprehend and verbally
communicate with beasts for the duration. The
knowledge and awareness of many beasts is limited
by their intelligence, but at minimum, beasts can
give you information about nearby locations and
monsters, inc1uding whatever they can perceive ar have
perceived within the past day. Vou mlght be able to
persuade a beast to perform a small favor for you, at the
DM's discretion.

SPEAK WITH DEAD
3rd-Ievel necromancy
Casting Time: I action
Range: 10 feet
Components: V, S, M(burning incense)
Duration: 10 minutes
Vou grant the semblance of life and intelligence to a
corpse of your choice within range, allowing It to answer
the questions you pose. The corpse must still have a
mouth and can't be undead. The spell fails if the corpse
was the target of this spell within the last 10 days.
Until the spell ends, you can ask the corpse up to five
questions. The corpse knows only what it knew in life,
inc1uding the languages it knew. Answers are usually
brief, cryptic, ar repetitive, and the corpse is under no
compulsion to offer a truthful answer if you are hostile
to it or it recognizes you as an enemy. This spell doesn't
return the creature's soul to its body, only its animating
spiril. Thus, the corpse can't learn new Information,
doesn't comprehend anything that has happened since it
died, and can't speculate about future events.

SPEAK WITH PLANTS
3rd-Ievel transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Sei f (30-foot radius)
Components: V,S
Duration: 10 minutes
Vou imbue plants within 30 feet of you with limited
sentience and animation, giving them the ability
to communicate with you and follow your simple
commands. Vou can question plants about events in the
spell's area within the past day, gaining information
about crealures that have passed, weather, and other
circumstances.
Vou can also turn difficult terrain caused by plant
growth (such as thickets and undergrowth) into ordinary
terrain that lasls for the duratlon. Or you can turn
ordinary terrain where plants are present into difficult
terrain that lasts for the duration, causing vines and
branches to hindcr pursuers, for example.
Plants might be able to perform other tasks on your
behalf, at the DM's discretion. The spell doesn't enable
plants to uproot themselves and move about, but they
can freely move branches, tendrils, and stalks.
lf a plant creature is in the area, you can communicate
with it as if you shared a common language, but you
gain no magical ability to influence it.
This spell can cause the plants created by the entangle
spell to release a restrained creature.

SPIDER CUMB
2nd-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M(a drop of bitumen and a spider)
Duration: Concentration, up to I hour
Until the spell ends, one willing creature you touch
gains the ability to move up, down, and across vertical
surfaces and upside down along ceilings, while leaving
its hands free. The target also gains a c1imbing speed
equal to its walking speed.

SPIKE GROWTH
2nd-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: ISO feet
Components: V, S, M(seven sharp thorns ar seven
small twigs, each sharpened to a point)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
277
The ground in a 20-foot radius centered on a point
within range twists and sprouts hard spikes and thorns.
The area becomes difficult terrain for the duration.
When a creature moves into or within the area, it takes
2d4 piercing damage for every 5 feet it travels.
The transformation of the ground is camoufiaged to
look natura!. Any creature that can't see the area at the
time the spell is cast must make a Wisdom (Perception)
check against your spell save DC to recognize the
terrain as hazardous before entering it.

SPIRIT GUARDIANS
3rd-/evel conjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: SeI f (15-foot radius)
Components: V, S, M (a holy symbol)
Duration: Concentration, up to lO minutes
Vou call forth spirits to protect you. They fiit around you
to a distance of 15 feet for the duration. If you are good
or neutra!. their spectral form appears angelic or fey
(your choice). If you are evil, they appear fiendish.
When you cast this spell, you can designate any
number of creatures you can see to be unaffected by it.
An affected creature's speed is halved in the area, and
when the creature enters the area for the first time on
a turn or starts its turn there, it must make a Wisdom
saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 3d8
radiant damage (if you are good or neutral) or 3d8
necrotic damage (if you are evil). On a successful save,
the creature takes half as much damage.
At Higher Leveis. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th leveI or higher, the damage increases by
Id8 for each slot leveI above 3rd.

SPIRITUAL WEAPON
2nd-levei evacatian
Casting Time: I bonus actian
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: I minute
You create a fioating, spectral weapon within range that
lasts for the duration or until you cast this spell again.
When you cast the spell, you can make a melee spell
attack against a creature within 5 feet of the weapon. On
a hit, the target takes force damage equal to Id8 + your
spellcasting ability modifier.
As a bonus action on your turn, you can move the
weapon up to 20 feet and repeat the attack against a
creature within 5 feet of it.
The weapon can take whatever form yau choose.
Clerics of deities who are associated with a particular
weapon (as SI. Cuthbert is known for his mace
and Thor for his hammer) make this spell's effect
resemble that weapon.
At Higher Leveis. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 3rd leveI or higher, the damage increases by
Id8 for every twa slot leveIs above the 2nd.

STAGGERING SMITE
4th-levei evacatian
Casting Time: 1 banus actian
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Canccntration, up to I minute
The next time you hit a creature with a melee weapon
attack during this spell's duration, your weapon pierces
both body and mind, and the attack deals an extra
4d6 psychic damage to the target. The target must
make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, it has
disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks, and
can't take reactions, until the end of its next turno

STINKING CLOUD
3rd-/evel conjuratiaIl
Casting Time: I action
Range: 90 feet
Components: V, S, M(a rotten egg or several skunk
cabbage leaves)
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
Vou create a 20-foot-radius sphere of yellow, nauseating
gas centered on a point within range. The c10ud spreads
around corners, and its area is hcavily obscured. The
cloud lingers in the air for the duratioll.
Each creature that is completely within the c1aud at
the start af its turn must make a Canstitutian saving
throw against paisano On a failed save, the creature
spends its actian that turn retching and reeling.
Creatures that dan't need to breathe ar are immune to
paison automatically succeed on this saving throw.
A maderate wind (at least 10 miles per hour) disperses
the c10ud after 4 rounds. A strong wind (at Jeast 20
miles per haur) disperses it after I round.

STONE SHAPE
4th-levei transmutation
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (50ft c1ay,which must be worked
into roughly the desired shape of the stone object)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou touch a stone object of Medium size or smaller or
a section of stone no more than 5 feet in any dimension
and form it into any shape that suits your purpose. So,
for example, you could shape a large rock into a weapon,
idol, or coffer, or make a small passage through a wall,
as long as the wall is less than 5 feet thick. Vou could
also shape a stone door or its frame to seal the door
shut. The object you create can have up to two hinges
and a latch, but finer mechallical detail isn't possible.

STONESKIN
4th-levei abjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M(diamond dust worth 100 gp,
which the spell consumes)
Duration: COllcentration, up to I hour
This spell turns the flesh of a willing creature you touch
as hard as stone. Until the spell ends, the target has
resistance to nonmagical bludgeoning, piercing, and
slashing damage.

STORM OF VENGEANCE
9th-levei conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Sight
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A churning storm cloud forms, centered on a point you
can see and spreading to a radius of 360 fee!. Lightning
flashes in the area, thunder booms, and strong winds
roar. Each creature under the cloud (no more than 5,000
feet beneath the cloud) when it appears must make a
Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a creature
takes 2d6 thunder damage and becomes deafened
for 5 minutes.
Each round you maintain concentration on this spell,
the storm produces additional effects on your turno
Round 2. Acidic rain falls from the cloud.
Each creature and object under the cloud takes
ld6 acid damage.
Round 3. Vou call six bolts of lightning from the
cloud to strike six creatures or objects of your choice
beneath the cloud. A given creature or object can't be
struck by more than one boi!. A struck creature must
make a Dexterity saving throw. The creature takes
lOd6lightning damage on a failed save, or half as much
damage on a successful one.
Round 4. Hailstones rain down from the
cloud. Each creature under the cloud takes 2d6
bludgeoning damage.
Round 5-10. Gusts and freezing rain assail the
area under the cloud. The area becomes difficult
terrain and is heavily obscured. Each creature there
takes ld6 cold damage. Ranged weapon attacks in
the area are impossible. The wind and rain count as
a severe distraction for the purposes of maintaining
concentration on spells. Finally, gusts of strong wind
(ranging from 20 to 50 miles per hour) automatically
disperse fog, mists, and similar phenomena in the area,
whether mundane or magical.

SUGGESTlON
2nd-levei enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,M(a snake's tongue and either a bit of
honeycomb or a drop of sweet oil)
Duration: Concentration, up to 8 hours
Vou suggest a course of activity (limited to a sentence
or two) and magically influence a creature you can
see within range that can hear and understand YOU.
Creatures that can't be charmed are immune to this
effec!. The suggestion must be worded in such a manner
as to make the course of action sound reasonable.
Asking the creature to stab itself, throw itself onto
a spear, immolate itself, or do some other obviously
harmful act ends the spell.
The target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a
failed save, it pursues the course of action you described
to the best of its ability. The suggested course of action
can continue for the entire duration. Ir the suggested
activity can be completed in a shorter time, the spell
ends when the subject tinishes what it was asked to do.
Vou can also specify conditions lhat will trigger a
special activity during the duration. For example, you
might suggest that a knight give her warhorse to the
tirst beggar she meets. Ir the condition isn't met before
the spell expires, the activity isn't performed.
Ir you or any of your companions damage the target,
the spell ends.
SUNBEAM
6th-levei evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (60-foot line)
Components: V, S, M(a magnifying glass)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A beam of brilliant light flashes out from your hand
in a 5-foot-wide, 60-foot-long line. Each creature in
the line must make a Constitution saving throw. On a
failed save, a creature takes 6d8 radiant damage and
is blinded until your next turno On a successful save,
it takes half as much damage and isn't blinded by this
spell. Undead and oozes have disadvantage on this
saving throw.
Vou can create a new line of radiance as your action
on any turn until the spell ends.
For the duration, a mote of brilliant radiance shines in
your hand. It sheds bright light in a 30-foot radius and
dim light for an additional 30 fee!. This lighl is sunligh!.

SUNBURST
8th-leveI evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 150 feet
Components: V, S, M(tire and a piece of sunstone)
Duration: Instantaneous
Brilliant sunlight flashes in a 60-foot radius centered
on a point you choose within range. Each creature in
that light must make a Constitution saving throw. On a
failed save, a creature takes 12d6 radiant damage and is
blinded for 1 minute. On a successful save, it takes half
as much damage and isn't blinded by this spell. Undead
and oozes have disadvantage on this saving throw.
A creature blinded by this spell makes another
Constitution saving throw at the end of each of its turns.
On a successful save, it is no longer blinded.
This spell dispels any darkness in its area that was
created by a spell.

SWIFT QurVER
5th-leveI transmutation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M(a quiver containing at least one
piece of ammunition)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
279
280 --
Vou transmute your quiver so it produces an endless
supply of nonmagical ammunition, which seems to leap
into your hand when you reach for it.
On each of your turns until the spell ends, you can use
a bonus action to make two attacks with a weapon that
uses ammunition from the quiver. Each time you make
such a ranged attack, your quiver magically replaces
the piece of ammunition you used with a similar piece
of nonmagical ammunition. Any pieces of ammunition
created by this spell disintegrate when the spell ends. ]f
the quiver leaves your possession, the spell ends.

SYMBOL
7th-levei abjuration
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M(mercury, phosphorus, and
powdered diamond and opa I with a total value of at
least 1,000 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: Until dispelled or triggered
When you cast this spell, you inscribe a harmful glyph
either on a surface (such as a section of floor, a wall, or
a table) or within an object that can be c10sed to conceal
the glyph (such as a book, a scroll, or a treasure chest).
]f you choose a surface, the glyph can cover an area of
the surface no larger than 10 feet in diameter. If you
choose an object, that object must remain in its place; if
the object is moved more than 10 feet from where you
cast this spell, the glyph is broken, and the spell ends
without being triggered.
The glyph is nearly invisible, requiring an Intelligence
(lnvestigation) check against your spell save
DC to find it.
Vou decide what triggers the glyph when you cast the
spell. For glyphs inscribed on a surface, the most typical
triggers include touching or stepping on the glyph,
removing another object covering it, approaching within
a certain distance of it, or manipulating the object
that holds it. For glyphs inscribed within an object,
the most common triggers are opening the object,
approaching within a certain distance of it, or seeing or
reading the glyph.
Vou can further refine the trigger so the spell is
activated only under certain circumstances or according
to a creature's physical characteristics (such as height
or weight), or physical kind (for example, the ward could
be set to affect hags or shapechangers). Vou can also
specify creatures that don't trigger the glyph, such as
those who say a certain password.
When you inscribe the glyph, choose one of the
options below for its effect. Once triggered, the glyph
glows, filling a 60-foot-radius sphere with dim Iight
for 10 minutes, after which time the spell ends. Each
creature in the sphere when the glyph activates is
targcted by its effect, as is a creature that enters the
sphere for the first time on a turn or ends its turn there.
Death. Each target must make a Constitution saving
throw, taking IOdlO necrotic damage on a failed save, or
half as much damage on a successful save.
Discord. Each target must make a Constitution saving
throw. On a failed save, a target bickers and argues
with other creatures for 1 minute. During this time,
it is incapable of meaningful communication and has
disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks.
Fear. Each target must make a Wisdom saving throw
and becomes frightened for 1 minute on a failed save.
While frightened, the target drops whatever it is holding
and must move at least 30 feet away from the glyph on
each of its turns, if able.
Hope/essness. Each target must make a Charisma
saving throw. On a failed save, the target is
overwhelmed with despair for 1 minute. During this
time, it can't attack or target any creature with harmful
abilities, spells, or other magical effects.
Insanity. Each target must make an lntelligence saving
throw. On a failed save, the target is driven insane for
1 minute. An insane creature can't take actions, can't
understand what other creatures say, can't read, and
speaks only in gibberish. The DM contrais its movement,
which is erratic.
Pain. Each target must make a Constitution saving
throw and becomes incapacitated with excruciating pain
for 1 minute on a failed save.
S/eep. Each target must make a Wisdom saving throw
and falls unconscious for 10 minutes on a failed save. A
creature awakens if it takes damage or if someone uses
an action to shake or slap it awake.
Stunning. Each target must make a Wisdom saving
throw and becomes stunned for 1 minute on a failed save.

TASHA'S HIDEOUS LAUGHTER
1st-levei enchantment
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M(tiny tarts and a feather that is
waved in the air)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
A creature of your choice that you can see within range
perceives everything as hilariously funny and falls
into fits of laughter if this spell affects it. The target
must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or fali prone,
becoming incapacitated and unable to stand up for the
duration. A creature with an lntelligence score of 4 or
less isn't affected.
At the end of each of its turns, and each time it takes
damage, the target can make another Wisdom saving
throw. The target has advantage on the saving throw if
it's triggered by damage. On a success, the spell ends.

TELEKINESIS
5th.level trallsmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Vou gain the ability to move or manipulate creatures
or objects by thought. When you cast the spell, and as
your action each round for the duration, you can exert
your will on one creature or object that you can see
within range, causing the appropriate effect below. Vou
can affect the same target round after round, or choose
a new one at any time. ]f you switch targets, the prior
target is no longer affected by the spell.
you. Vour familiarily with the destinalion determines
whelher you arrive lhere successfully. The DM rolls
dlOO and consults the table.
Familiarity. "Permanent circle" means a permanent
teleportation circle whose sigil sequence you know.
"Associaled object" means that you possess an objecl
taken from the desired destination within the last six
months, such as a book from a wizard's Iibrary, bed
linen from a royal suite, or a chunk of marble from a
lich's secret tombo
"Very familiar" is a place you have been very often, a
place you have carefully studied, or a place you can see
when you cast the spell. "Seen casually" is someplace
you have seen more than once bul wilh which you aren't
very familiar. "Viewed once" is a place you have seen
once, possibly using magic. "Description" is a place
whose Iocation and appearance you know through
someone else's description, perhaps from a map.
"False destination" is a place that doesn't exist.
Perhaps you tried to scry an enemy's sanctum but
instead viewed an illusion, or you are atlempting lo
teleport to a familiar localion that no longer exists.
00 Target. Vou and your group (or the target objecl)
appear where you wanllo.
OffTarget. Vou and your group (or the larget object)
appear a random dislance away from the deslination
in a random direclion. Distance off target is Id 10 x
Id lO percent of the distance that was to be traveled.
For example, if you tried to traveI 120 miles, landed off
largel, and rolled a 5 and 3 on the two dlOs, lhen you
would be off largel by 15 percent, or 18 miles. The DM
determines lhe direction off targel randomly by rolling a
d8 and designaling I as north, 2 as northeast, 3 as easl,
and so on around lhe points of lhe compasso ]f you were
teleporting lo a coastal city and wound up 18 miles out
at sea, you could be in trouble.
Similar Area. Vou and your group (or the targel
object) wind up in a different area that's visually or
themalically similar to the target area. ]f you are
heading for your home laboratory, for example, you
might wind up in another wizard's laboratory or in
an alchemical supply shop that has many of the same
tools and implemenls as your laboratory. Generally,
you appear in the closest similar place, bul since the
spell has no range Iimit, you could conceivably wind up
anywhere on the plane.
Mishap. The spell's unpredictable magic results in a
difficultjourney. Each leleporting crealure (or the largel
objecl) lakes 3d 10 force damage, and lhe DM rerolls on
Creature. Vou can lry to move a Huge or smaller
crealure. Make an abilily check wilh your spellcasting
ability contested by the crealure's Strength check. ]f
you win lhe contesl, you move the creature up to 30 feet
in any direclion, including upward but not beyond the
range of lhis spel!. Until the end of your nexllurn, the
creature is restrained in your telekinetic gripoA creature
Iifled upward is suspended in mid.air.
On subsequenl rounds, you can use your action lO
atlempl to maintain your telekinetic grip on the creature
by repealing lhe contest.
Object. Vou can try to move an objecl thal weighs
up to 1,000 pounds.lfthe object isn't being worn or
carried, you automalically move il up lo 30 feet in any
direction, but not beyond lhe range of lhis spell.
If the object is worn or carried by a creature, you must
make an ability check wilh your spellcasting ability
contesled by lhat creature's Strenglh check. ]f you
succeed, you pull the object away from that creature and
can move il up to 30 feel in any direclion but nol beyond
the range of this spel!.
Vou can exert fine conlrol on objecls with your
telekinetic grip, such as manipulaling a simple tool,
opening a door or a conlainer, stowing or relrieving
an item from an open container, or pouring the
contents from a via!'

TELEPATHY
8th./evel evocation
Casting Time: I aclion
Range: Unlimited
Components: V, S, M(a pair of Iinked silver rings)
Duration: 24 hours
Vou create a telepathic link between yourself and
a willing crealure with which you are familiar. The
creature can be anywhere on the same plane of
exislence as you. The spell ends if you or the largel are
no longer on the same plane.
Until the spell ends, you and the target can
inslantaneously share words, images, sounds, and
other sensory messages with one another through the
Iink, and lhe target recognizes you as the creature it
is communicating with. The spell enables a creature
wilh an Intelligence score of at least I to understand
lhe meaning of your words and lake in lhe scope of any
sensory messages you send lo 11.

TELEPORT
7th./evel conjuration
Casting Time: I action
Range: 10 feel
Components: V
Duration: Inslantaneous
This spell instantly transports you and up to eight
willing creatures of your choice that you can see within
range, or a single object that you can see within range,
to a destination you select. Ifyou target an object, il
must be able to fit enlirely inside a lO.fool cube, and il
can't be held or carried by an unwilling crealure.
The destination you choose must be known to you,
and il musl be on the same plane of exislence as
Familiarily
Permanent circle
Associaled objecl
Very familiar
Seen casually
Viewed once
Descriplion
False destinalion
Mishap
01-05
01-33
01-43
01-43
01-50
Similar
Area
06-13
34-43
44-53
44-53
51-100
Off
Targel
14-24
44-53
54-73
54-73
On
Targel
01-100
01-100
25-100
54-100
74-100
74-100
the table to see where you wind up (multiple mishaps
can occur, dealing damage each time).

TELEPORTATION CIRCLE
5th-leveI conjuration
Casting Time: 1 minute
Range: 10 feet
Components: V,M(rare chalks and inks infused with
precious gems with 50 gp, which the spell consumes)
Duration: 1 round
As you cast the spell, you draw a lO-foot-diameter
circle on the ground inscribed with sigils that Iink
your location to a permanent teleportation circle of
your choice whose sigil sequence you know and that is
on the same plane of existence as you. Ashimmering
portal opens within the circle you drew and remains
open until the end of your next turn. Any creature that
enters the portal instantly appears within 5 feet of the
destination circle or in the nearest unoccupied space if
that space is occupied.
Many major tempIes, guilds, and other important
places have permanent teleportation circles inscribed
somewhere within their confines. Each such circle
includes a unique sigil sequence-a string of magical
runes arranged in a particular pattern. When you first
gain the ability to cast this spell, you learn the sigil
sequences for two destinations on the Material Plane,
determined by the DM.Vou can learn additional sigil
sequences during your adventures. Voucan commit
a new sigil sequence to memory after studying it
for 1 minute.
Vou can create a permanent teleportation circle by
casting this spell in the same location every day for one
year. Vou need not use the circle to teleport when you
cast the spell in this way.

TENSER'S FLOATING DISK
1st-leveI conjuration (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M(a drop of mercury)
Duration: 1 hour
This spell creates a circular, horizontal plane of force,
3 feet in dia meter and 1 inch thick, that lIoats 3 feet
above the ground in an unoccupied space of your choice
that you can see within range. The disk remains for the
duration, and can hold up to 500 pounds. If more weight
is placed on it, the spell ends, and everything on the disk
falls to the ground.
The disk is immobile while you are within 20 feet of
it. If you move more than 20 feet away from it, the disk
follows you so that it remains within 20 feet of YOU. It
can move across uneven terrain, up or down stairs,
slopes and the Iike. but it can't cross an e1evation change
of 10 feet or more. For example, the disk can't move
across a IO-foot-deep pit, nor could it leave such a pit if it
was created at the bottom.
If you move more than 100 feet from the disk (typically
because it can't move around an obstacle to follow you),
the spell ends.

THAUMATURGY
Transmutation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V
Duration: Up to 1 minute
Vou manifest a minor wonder, a sign of supernatural
power, within range. Voucreate one of the following
magical effects within range:
Vour voice booms up to three times as loud as normal
for 1 minute.
Vou cause liames to lIicker, brighten, dim, or change
color for 1 minute.
Voucause harmless tremors in the ground for 1
minute.
Vou create an instantaneous sound that originates
from a point of your choice within range, such as a
rumble of thunder, the cry of a raven, or ominous
whispers.
Vou instantaneously cause an unlocked door or window
to lIyopen or slam shut.
Vou alter the appearance of your eyes for 1 minute.
If you cast this spell multi pIe times, you can have up to
three of its l-minute effects active at a time, and you can
dismiss such an effect as an action.
THORNWHIP
Transmutation cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V,S, M(the stem of a plant with thorns)
Duration: 1nstantaneous
Voucreate a long, vine-Iike whip covered in thorns that
lashes out at your command toward a creature in range.
Make a melee spell attack against the target. ]f the
attack hits, the creature takes 1d6 piercing damage, and
if the creature is Large or smaller, you pull the creature
up to 10 feet c10ser to you.
This spell's damage increases by 1d6 when you reach
5th leveI (2d6), 11th levei (3d6), and 17th leveI (4d6).

THUNDEROUS SMITE
1st-leveI evocation
Casting Time: 1 bonus action
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute
The first time you hit with a melee weapon attack
during this spell's duration, your weapon rings with
thunder that is audible within 300 feet of you, and the
attack deals an extra 2d6 thunder damage to the target.
Additionally, if the target is a creature, it must succeed
on a Strength saving throw or be pushed 10 feet away
from you and knocked prone.

THUNDERWAVE
1st-leveI evocation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Self (15-foot cube)
Components: V,S
Duration: Instantaneous
A wave of thunderous foree sweeps out from you. Eaeh
ereature in a 15-foot eube originating from you must
make a Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a
ereature takes 2d8 thunder damage and is pushed 10
feet away from you. On a sueeessful save, the ereature
takes half as mueh damage and isn't pushed.
In addition, unseeured objeets that are eompletely
within the area of effeet are automatically pushed 10 feet
away from you by the spell's effeet, and the spell emits a
thunderous boom audible out to 300 feet.
At Higher LeveIs. When you east this spell using a
spell slot of 2nd leveI or higher, the damage inereases by
ld8 for eaeh slot leveI above 1st.

TIME STOP
9th-levei transmutation
Casting Time: 1 aetion
Range: Self
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou briefly stop the flow of time for everyone but
yourself. No time passes for other ereatures, while you
take Id4 + 1 turns in a row, during which you ean use
aetions and move as normal.
This spell ends if one of the aetions you use during
this period, or any effeets that you ereate during this
period, affeets a ereature other than you or an objeet
being worn or earried by someone other than you. In
addition, the spell ends if you move to a plaee more than
1,000 feet from the loeation where you east it.
TONGUES
3rd-/evel divination
Casting Time: I aetion
Range: Toueh
Components: V,M(a small day model of a ziggurat)
Duration: 1 hour
This spell grants the ereature you toueh the ability to
understand any spoken language it hears. Moreover,
when the target speaks, any ereature that knows at
least one language and ean hear the target understands
what it says.

TRANSPORT VIA PLANTS
6th-levei eonjuration
Casting Time: 1 aetion
Range: 10 feet
Components: V,S
Duration: 1 round
This spell ereates a magieallink between a Large or
larger inanimate plant within range and another plant,
at any distanee, on the same plane of existence. Vou
must have seen or touched the destination plant at least
onee before. For the duration, any creature can step into
the target plant and exit from the destination plant by
using 5 feet of movement.

TREE STRIDE
5th-leveI conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range:Self
Components: V,S
Duration: Coneentration, up to 1 minute
Vou gain the ability to enter a tree and move from inside
it to inside another tree of the same kind within 500
feet. Both trees must be living and at least the same size
as you. Vou must use 5 feet of movement to enter a tree.
Vou instantly know the location of ali other trees of the
same kind within 500 feet and, as part of the move used
to enter the tree, ean either pass into one of those trees
or step out of the tree you're in. Vou appear in a spot of
your choice within 5 feet of the destination tree, using
another 5 feet of movement. If you have no movement
left, you appear within 5 feet of the tree you entered.
Vou can use this transportation ability once per round
for the duration. Vou must end each turn outside a tree.

TRUE POLYMORPH
9th-levei transmutation
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: V, S, M(a drop of mereury, a dolIop of
gum arabic, and a wisp of smoke)
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
Choose one ereature or nonmagical objeet that you
can see within range. Vou transform the creature into
a different creature, the ereature into an object, or the
objeet into a creature (the object must be neither worn
nor earried by another creature). The transformation
lasts for the duration, or until the target drops to O hit
points or dies. If you concentrate on this spelI for the fulI
duration, the transformation beeomes permanent.
Shapechangers aren't affected by this spell. An
unwilIing creature ean make a Wisdom saving throw,
and if it sueeeeds, it isn't affected by this spell.
Creature into Creature. If you turn a creature into
another kind of creature, the new form can be any kind
you choose whose ehalIenge rating is equal to or less
than the target's (or its leveI. if the target doesn't have a
chalIenge rating). The target's game statistics, induding
mental ability scores, are replaced by the statisties of
the new formo It retains its alignment and personality.
The target assumes the hit points of its new form,
and when it reverts to its normal form, the creature
returns to the number of hit points it had before it
transformed. If it reverts as a result of dropping to
O hit points, any excess damage carries over to its
normal formoAs long as the excess damage doesn't
reduce the creature's normal form to O hit points, it isn't
knocked unconscious.
The creature is limited in the actions it can perform by
the nature of its new form, and it can't speak, east spelIs,
or take any other action that requires hands or speech,
unless its new form is capable of such actions.
The target's gear melds into the new formo The
creature can't activate, use, wield, or otherwise benelit
from any of its equipment.
Object into Creature. Vou can turn an object into
any kind of creature, as long as the creature's size
is no larger than the object's size and the creature's
cha11enge rating is 9 or lower. The creature is friendly to
you and your companions. It acts on each of your turns.
Vou decide what action it takes and how it moves. The
DM has the creature's statislics and resolves ali of its
actions and movement.
[f the spe11becomes permanent, you no longer control
the creature. It might remain friendly to you, depending
on how you have treated it.
Creature into Object. If you turn a creature into an
object, it transforms along with whatever it is wearing
and carrying into that formo The creature's statistics
become those of the object, and the creature has no
rÍlemory of time spent in this form, after the spe11ends
and it returns to its normal formo

TRUE RESURRECTION
9th.level necromancy
Casting Time: 1 hour
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M(a sprinkle of holy water and
diamonds worth at least 25,000 gp, which the
spe11consumes)
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou touch a creature that has been dead for no longer
than 200 years and that died for any reason except
old age. If the creature's sou I is free and wi11ing,the
creature is restored to life with a11its hit points.
This spe11doses a11wounds, neutralizes any poison,
cures a11diseases, and lifts any curses affecting the
crealure when it died. The spell replaces damaged or
missing organs and limbs.
The spe11can even provi de a new body if the original
no longer exists, in which case you must speak the
creature's name, The creature then appears in an
unoccupied space you choose within 10 feet of you.

TRUE SEEING
6th.level divination
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V, S, M (an ointment for the eyes that
costs 25 gp; is made from mushroom powder, saffron,
and fat; and is consumed by the spe11)
Duration: 1 hou r
This spe11gives the willing creature you touch the ability
to see things as they actually are. For the duration, the
creature has truesight, notices secret doors hidden by
magic, and can see into the Ethereal Plane, ali out to a
range of 120 feet.

TRUE STRIKE
Divination cantrip
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 30 feet
Components: S
Duration: Concentration, up to 1 round
Vou extend your hand and point a finger at a target in
range. Vour magic grants you a brief insight into the
I'ART 3 I SI'ELLS
target's defenses. On your next turn, you gain advantage
on your first attack roll against lhe target, provided that
this spe11hasn't ended.

TSUNAMI
8th-levei conjuration
Casting Time: I minute
Range: Sight
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentralion, up to 6 rounds
A wall of water springs into existence at a point you
choose within range, Vou can make the wall up to 300
feel long, 300 feet high, and 50 feet thick. The walllasts
for the duration.
When lhe wall appears, each creature within its area
must make a Strength saving throw. On a failed save,
a creature takes 6dlO bludgeoning damage, or half as
much damage on a successful save.
At the start of each of your turns after the wall
appears, the wa11,along with any creatures in it, moves
50 feet away from YOU. Any Huge or smaller creature
inside the wall or whose space the wall enters when
it moves must succeed on a Strength saving throw or
take 5dlO bludgeoning damage. A creature can take
this damage only once per round. At the end of the turn,
the wall's height is reduced by 50 feet, and the damage
creatures take from the spell on subsequent rounds is
reduced by IdlO. When the wa11reaches Ofeet in height,
the spe11ends.
A creature caught in the wall can move by swimming.
Because of the force of the wave, though, the creature
must make a successful Strength (Athletics) check
against your spell save DC in order to move at alI. If it
fails the check, it can't move, A creature that moves out
of the area faIls to the ground.

UNSEEN SERVANT
1st-levei conjuration (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V, S, M(a piece of string and
a bit of wood)
Duration: 1 hour
This speIl creates an invisible, mindless, shapeless
force that performs simple tasks at your command until
the speIl ends. The servant springs into existence in an
unoccupied space on the ground within range. It has AC
10, I hit point, and a Strength of 2, and it can't attack. [f
it drops to Ohit points, the speIl ends.
Once on each of your turns as a bonus action, you can
mentaIly command the servant to move up to 15 feet and
interact with an object. The servant can perform simple
tasks that a human servant could do, such as felching
things, c1eaning, mending, folding c1othes, lighting
fires, serving food, and pouring wine. Once you give the
command, the servant performs the task to the best of
its ability until it completes the task, then waits for your
next command.
If you command the servant to perform a task that
would move it more than 60 feet away from you,
the spe11ends.

VAMPIRIC TOUCH
3rd-Jevel necromancy
Casting Time: I action
Range: Self
Components: V,S
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
The touch of your shadow-wreathed hand can siphon life
force from others to heal your wounds. Make a melee
spell attack against a creature wilhin your reach. On
a hit, the target takes 3d6 necrotic damage, and you
regain hit points equal to half the amount of necratic
damage dealt. Until the spell ends, you can make the
attack again on each of your turns as an action.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 4th levei ar higher, the damage increases by
Id6 for each slot levei above 3rd.

VICIOUS MOCKERY
Enchantmentcantrip
Casting Time: I action
Range: 60 feet
Components: V
Duration: Instantaneous
Vou unleash a string of insults laced with subtle
enchantments at a creature you can see within range. lf
the target can hear you (though it need not understand
you), it must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw ar take
Id4 psychic damage and have disadvantage on the next
attack rall it makes before the end of its next turo.
This spell's damage increases by Id4 when you reach
5th levei (2d4), 11th levei (3d4), and 17th levei (4d4).

WALL OF FIRE
4th-leveI evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a small piece of phosphorus)
Duration: Concentration, up to I minute
Vou create a wall of fire on a solid surface within
range. Vou can make the wall up to 60 feet long, 20
feet high, and I foot thick, ar a ringed wall up to 20 feet
in diameter, 20 feet high, and I foot thick. The wall is
opaque and lasts for the duration.
When the wall appears, each creature within its area
must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, a
creature takes 5d8 fire damage, ar half as much damage
on a successful save.
One side of the wall, selected by you when you cast
this spell, deals 5d8 fire damage to each creature lhat
ends its turo within 10 feet of that side ar inside the
wal!. Acreature takes the same damage when it enters
the wall for the first time on a turo ar ends its turo there.
The other side of the wall deals no damage.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast lhis spell using a
spell slot of 5th levei ar higher, the damage increases by
Id8 for each slot levei above 4th.

WALL OF FORCE
5th-leveI evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M (a pinch of powder made by
crushing a clear gemstone)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
An invisible wall of force springs into existence at a
point you choose within range. The wall appears in
any orientation you choose, as a horizontal ar vertical
barrier ar at an angle. It can be free floating ar resting
on a solid surface. Vou can form it into a hemispherical
dome ar a sphere with a radius of up to 10 feet, ar you
can shape a flat surface made up of ten IO-foot-by-
IO-foot panels. Each panel must be contiguous with
another pane!. In any form, the wall is 1/4 inch thick.
1t lasts for the duration. If the wall cuts through a
creature's space when it appears, the creature is pushed
to one side of the wall (your choice which side).
Nothing can physically pass through the wal!. It is
immune to ali damage and can't be dispelled by dispel
magic. A disintegrate spell destroys the wall instantly,
however. The wall also extends into the Ethereal Plane,
blocking ethereal travei through the wall.

WALL OF ICE
6th-leveI evocation
Casting Time: I action
Range: 120 feet
Components: V, S, M(a small piece of quartz)
Duration: Concentration, up to 10 minutes
Vou create a wall of ice on a solid surface within range.
Vou can form it into a hemispherical dome ar a sphere
with a radius of up to 10 feet, ar you can shape a flat
surface made up of ten IO-foot-square panels. Each
panel must be contiguous with another pane!. In any
form, the wall is I foot thick and lasts for the duration.
If the wall cuts through a creature's space when it
appears, the creature within its area is pushed to one
side of the wall and must make a Dexterity saving throw.
On a failed save, the creature takes IOd6 cold damage,
ar half as much damage on a successful save.
The wall is an object that can be damaged and thus
breached. 1t has AC 12 and 30 hit points per IO-foot
section, and it is vulnerable to fire damage. Reducing
a 10-foot section ofwall to Ohit points destrays it and
leaves behind a sheet of frigid air in the space the wall
occupied. A creature moving thraugh the sheet of frigid
air for the first time on aturo must make a Constitution
saving thraw. That creature takes 5d6 cold damage on a
failed save, ar half as much damage on a successful one.
At Higher LeveIs. When you cast this spell using a
spell slot of 7th levei ar higher, the damage the wall
deals when it appears increases by 2d6, and the damage
fram passing through the sheet of frigid air increases by
Id6, for each slot levei above 6th.

WALL OF STONE
5th-leveI evocation
Casting Time: 1 aclion
Range: 120 feel
Components: V,S, M(a small block of granile)
Duration: Concenlralion, up lO 10 minules
A nonmagical wall of solid slone springs inlo exislence
aI a poinl you choose wilhin range. The wa11is 6 inches
lhick and is composed of len lO-foOl-by-lO-foOpIanels.
Each panel musl be conliguous wilh alleasl one olher
pane!. AIlernatively. you can creale 10-foOl-by-20-fool
panels lhat are only 3 inches lhick.
If lhe wall culs lhrough a crealure's space when il
appears, lhe crealure is pushed lo one side of lhe wa11
(your choice). lf a creature would be surrounded on a11
sides by lhe wa11(or lhe wa11and anolher solid surface),
lhal crealure can make a Dexlerity saving lhrow. On a
success, il can use ils reaclion lo move up lo ils speed so
lhat il is no longer enclosed by lhe wall.
The wall can have any shape you desire, lhough il
can'l occupy lhe same space as a crealure or objecl.
The wall doesn'l need lo be verlical or resl on any firm
foundalion. It musl. however, merge wilh and be solidly
supporled by exisling slone. Thus, you can use lhis spell
lo bridge a chasm or creale a ramp.
Ifyou creale a span grealer lhan 20 feel in lenglh, you
musl halve lhe size of each panello creale supporls.
Vou can crudely shape lhe walllo creale crenellalions,
balllemenls, and so on.
The wall is an objecl made of stone that can be
damaged and lhus breached. Each panel has AC 15 and
30 hit points per inch of thickness. Reducing a panel
lo Ohit points destroys it and might cause connected
panels to collapse aI the DM's discrelion.
lf you maintain your concentralion on this spell for
its whole duralion, the wall becomes permanenl and
can't be dispelled. Olherwise, lhe wall disappears when
the spell ends.

WALL OF THORNS
6th-leveI conjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: 120 feel
Components: V,S, M(a handful of lhorns)
Duration: Concenlralion, up to 10 minules
Vou creale a wa11of lough, pliable. langled brush
brislling with needle-sharp lhorns. The wa11appears
within range on a solid surface and lasls for lhe
duralion. Vouchoose lOmake lhe wall up lo 60 feel
long, 10 feel high, and 5 feellhick or a circle lhal has
a 20-fool diameler and is up lo 20 feel high and 5 feel
lhick. The wall blocks line of sighl.
When lhe wall appears, each crealure wilhin ils area
musl make a Dexlerily saving lhrow. On a failed save,
a crealure lakes 7d8 piercing damage, or half as much
damage on a successful save.
Acrealure can move lhrough lhe wall, albeil slowly
and painfully. For every 1 fool a creature moves
lhrough lhe wa11,il musl spend 4 feel of movemenl.
Furlhermore, lhe firsllime a crealure enlers lhe wall
on a lurn or ends its lurn lhere, lhe crealure musl
make a Dexlerily saving throw. It takes 7d8 slashing
damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a
successful one.
At Hil1her LeveIs. When you casllhis spe11using a
spe11slol of 71hlevei or higher, boIh lypes of damage
increase by Id8 for each slollevel above 61h.

WARDING BOND
2nd-leveI abjuration
Casting Time: 1 action
Range: Touch
Components: V,S, M(a pair of plalinum rings worlh aI
leasl 50 gp each, which you and lhe largel musl wear
for lhe duralion)
Duration: 1 hour
This spell wards a willing crealure you louch and
creales a myslic conneclion belween you and lhe largel
unlillhe spell ends. While lhe largel is wilhin 60 feel of
you. il gains a +1 bonus lo ACand saving lhrows, and
il has resislance lo ali damage. AIso, each lime il lakes
damage, you lake lhe same amount of damage.
The spell ends if you drop lo Ohil poinls or ifyou
and lhe largel become separaled by more lhan 60 feel.
It also ends if lhe spell is casl again on eilher of lhe
connecled crealures. Vou can also dismiss lhe spell
as an aclion.

WATER BREATHING
3rd-Ievel transmutation (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 aclion
Range: 30 feel
Components: V,S, M(a shorl reed or piece of slraw)
Duration: 24 hours
This spell granls up lo ten willing crealures you can see
wilhin range lhe abilily lo brealhe underwaler unlillhe
spell ends. Affecled crealures also relain lheir normal
mode of respiralion.

WATERWALK
3rd-Ievel transmutation (ritual)
Casting Time: 1 aclion
Range: 30 feel
Components: V,S, M(a piece of cork)
Duration: 1 hour
This spell granls lhe abilily lo move across any Iiquid
surface-such as waler, acid, mud, snow, quicksand,
or lava-as if il were harmless solid ground (crealures
crossing mollen lava can slilllake damage from lhe
heal). Up lo len willing crealures you can see wilhin
range gain lhis abilily for the duralion.
lf you largel a crealure submerged in a Iiquid, the
spell carries lhe largello lhe surface of the liquid aI a
rale of 60 feel per round.

WEB
2nd-level conjuration Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S, M (a bit of spiderweb) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 hour
You conjure a mass of thick, sticky webbing at a point of your choice within range. The webs fill a 20-foot cube from that point for the duration. The webs are difficult terrain and lightly obscure their area. If the webs aren't anchored between two solid masses (such as walls or trees) or layered across a floor, wall, or ceiling, the conjured web collapses on itself, and the spell ends at the start of your next turn. Webs layered over a flat surface have a depth of 5 feet. Each creature that starts its turn in the webs or that enters them during its turn must make a Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, the creature is restrained as long as it remains in the webs or until it breaks free. A creature restrained by the webs can use its action to make a Strength check against your spell save DC. If it succeeds, it is no longer restrained. The webs are flammable. Any 5-foot cube of webs exposed to fire burns away in 1 round, dealing 2d4 fire damage to any creature that starts its turn in the fire.

WEIRD
9th-level illusion Casting Time: 1 action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S Duration: Concentration, up to one minute Drawing on the deepest fears of a group of creatures, you create illusory creatures in their minds, visible only to them. Each creature in a 30-foot-radius sphere centered on a point of your choice within range must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, a creature becomes frightened for the duration. The illusion calls on the creature's deepest fears, manifesting its worst nightmares as an implacable threat. At the start of each of the frightened creature's turns, it must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or take 4d10 psychic damage. On a successful save, the spell ends for that creature.

WIND WALK
6th-level transmutation Casting Time: 1 minute Range: 30 feet Components: V, S, M (fire and holy water) Duration: 8 hours
You and up to ten willing creatures you can see within range assume a gaseous form for the duration, appearing as wisps of cloud. While in this cloud form, a creature has a flying speed of 300 feet and has resistance to damage from nonmagical weapons. The only actions a creature can take in this form are the Dash action or to revert to its normal form. Reverting takes 1 minute, during which time a creature is incapacitated and can't move. Until the spell ends, a creature can revert to cloud form, which also requires the 1-minute transformation. If a creature is in cloud form and flying when the effect ends, the creature descends 60 feet per round for 1 minute until it lands, which it does safely. If it can't land after 1 minute, the creature falls the remaining distance.

WIND WALL
3rd-level evocation Casting Time: 1 action Range: 120 feet Components: V, S, M (a tiny fan and a feather of exotic origin) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute A wall of strong wind rises from the ground at a point you choose within range. You can make the wall up to 50 feet long, 15 feet high, and 1 foot thick. You can shape the wall in any way you choose so long as it makes one continuous path along the ground. The wall lasts for the duration. When the wall appears, each creature within its area must make a Strength saving throw. A creature takes 3d8 bludgeoning damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. The strong wind keeps fog, smoke, and other gases at bay. Small or smaller flying creatures or objects can't pass through the wall. Loose, lightweight materials brought into the wall fly upward. Arrows, bolts, and other ordinary projectiles launched at targets behind the wall are deflected upward and automatically miss. (Boulders hurled by giants or siege engines, and similar projectiles, are unaffected.) Creatures in gaseous form can't pass through it.

WISH
9th-level conjuration Casting Time: 1 action Range: Self Components: V Duration: Instantaneous Wish is the mightiest spell a mortal creature can cast. By simply speaking aloud, you can alter the very foundations of reality in accord with your desires. The basic use of this spell is to duplicate any other spell of 8th level or lower. You don't need to meet any requirements in that spell, including costly components. The spell simply takes effect. Alternatively, you can create one of the following effects of your choice: You create one object of up to 25,000 gp in value that isn't a magic item. The object can be no more than 300 feet in any dimension, and it appears in an unoccupied space you can see on the ground. You allow up to twenty creatures that you can see to regain all hit points, and you end all effects on them described in the greater restoration spell. You grant up to ten creatures that you can see resistance to a damage type you choose. You grant up to ten creatures you can see immunity to a single spell or other magical effect for 8 hours. For instance, you could make yourself and all your companions immune to a lich's life drain attack. You undo a single recent event by forcing a reroll of any roll made within the last round (including your last turn). Reality reshapes itself to accommodate the new result. For example, a wish spell could undo an opponent's successful save, a foe's critical hit, or a friend's failed save. You can force the reroll to be made with advantage or disadvantage, and you can choose whether to use the reroll or the original roll. You might be able to achieve something beyond the scope of the above examples. State your wish to the DM as precisely as possible. The DM has great latitude in ruling what occurs in such an instance; the greater the wish, the greater the likelihood that something goes wrong. This spell might simply fail, the effect you desire might only be partly achieved, or you might suffer some unforeseen consequence as a result of how you worded the wish. For example, wishing that a villain were dead might propel you forward in time to a period when that villain is no longer alive, effectively removing you from the game. Similarly, wishing for a legendary magic item or artifact might instantly transport you to the presence of the item's current owner. The stress of casting this spell to produce any effect other than duplicating another spell weakens you. After enduring that stress, each time you cast a spell until you finish a long rest, you take 1d10 necrotic damage per level of that spell. This damage can't be reduced or prevented in any way. In addition, your Strength drops to 3, if it isn't 3 or lower already, for 2d4 days. For each of those days that you spend resting and doing nothing more than light activity, your remaining recovery time decreases by 2 days. Finally, there is a 33 percent chance that you are unable to cast wish ever again if you suffer this stress.

WITCH BOLT
1st-level evocation Casting Time: 1 action Range: 30 feet Components: V, S, M (a twig from a tree that has been struck by lightning) Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute A beam of crackling, blue energy lances out toward a creature within range, forming a sustained arc of lightning between you and the target. Make a ranged spell attack against that creature. On a hit, the target takes 1d12 lightning damage, and on each of your turns for the duration, you can use your action to deal 1d12 lightning damage to the target automatically. The spell ends if you use your action to do anything else. The spell also ends if the target is ever outside the spell's range or if it has total cover from you. At Higher Levels. When you cast this spell using a spell slot of 2nd level or higher, the initial damage increases by 1d12 for each slot level above 1st.

WORD OF RECALL
6th-level conjuration Casting Time: 1 action Range: 5 feet Components: V Duration: Instantaneous You and up to five willing creatures within 5 feet of you instantly teleport to a previously designated sanctuary. You and any creatures that teleport with you appear in the nearest unoccupied space to the spot you designated when you prepared your sanctuary (see below). If you cast this spell without first preparing a sanctuary, the spell has no effect. You must designate a sanctuary by casting this spell within a location, such as a temple, dedicated to or strongly linked to your deity. If you attempt to cast the spell in this manner in an area that isn't dedicated to your deity, the spell has no effect.

WRATHFUL SMITE
1st-level evocation Casting Time: 1 bonus action Range: Self Components: V Duration: Concentration, up to 1 minute The next time you hit with a melee weapon attack during this spell's duration, your attack deals an extra 1d6 psychic damage. Additionally, if the target is a creature, it must make a Wisdom saving throw or be frightened of you until the spell ends. As an action, the creature can make a Wisdom check against your spell save DC to steel its resolve and end this spell.

ZONE OF TRUTH
2nd-level enchantment Casting Time: 1 action Range: 60 feet Components: V, S Duration: 10 minutes You create a magical zone that guards against deception in a 15-foot-radius sphere centered on a point of your choice within range. Until the spell ends, a creature that enters the spell's area for the first time on a turn or starts its turn there must make a Charisma saving throw. On a failed save, a creature can't speak a deliberate lie while in the radius. You know whether each creature succeeds or fails on its saving throw. An affected creature is aware of the spell and can thus avoid answering questions to which it would normally respond with a lie. Such a creature can be evasive in its answers as long as it remains within the boundaries of the truth.