A
speak—they only howl. If there is a language within the howls, as ing its body. To sever a head, an opponent must make a successful
some have suggested, even spells cannot decipher it. Howlers sunder attempt with a slashing weapon. (The player should
understand Abyssal. declare where the attack is aimed before making the attack roll.)
Making a sunder attempt provokes an attack of opportunity
COMBAT unless the foe has the Improved Sunder feat. An opponent can
Howlers attack in groups, for they are cowardly and cruel. They strike at a hydra’s heads from any position in which he could strike
prefer to charge into combat, race out, and then charge in again. at the hydra itself, because the hydra’s head writhe and whip about
A howler’s natural weapons, as well as any weapons it wields, are in combat. An opponent can ready an action to attempt to sunder
treated as chaotic-aligned and evil-aligned for the purpose of over- a hydra’s head when the creature bites at him.
coming damage reduction. Each of a hydra’s heads has hit
Quills (Ex): A howler’s neck bristles with long quills. While points equal to the creature’s full
biting, the creature thrashes about, striking with 1d4 of normal hit point
them. An opponent hit by a howler’s quill attack must suc- total, divided by
ceed on a DC 16 Reflex save or have the quill break off its original number of
in his or her flesh. Lodged quills impose a –1 penalty heads. For example, if a
on attacks, saves, and checks per quill. The save DC is five-headed hydra
Dexterity-based. has 52 hit points, 10 or
A quill can be removed safely with a DC 20 more points of
Heal check; otherwise, removing a quill damage severs a
deals an extra 1d6 points of damage. head (52 ÷ 5
Howl (Ex): All beings other than 10.4, rounded down to 10).
outsiders that hear the creature’s Losing a head deals
howling for an hour or longer are damage to the body
subject to its effect, though it does equal to half the
not help the howler in combat. head’s full normal hit
Anyone within hearing range of a points. A natural
howler for a full hour must succeed on a reflex seals the
DC 12 Will save or take 1 point of neck shut to pre-
Wisdom damage. The save DC is vent further blood
Charisma-based. The save must loss. A hydra can no
be repeated for each hour of longer attack with a
exposure. This is a sonic mind- severed head but takes
affecting effect. no other penalties.
Each time a head is severed,
TRAINING A Howler two new heads spring from the
HOWLER stump in 1d4 rounds. A hydra can never have more than
Small and Medium infernal creatures such as quasits, abyssal orcs, twice its original number of heads at any one time, and any extra
and even succubi sometimes use howlers as mounts or pack ani- heads it gains beyond its original number wither and die within a
mals. Larger and more powerful demons use them like hunting day. To prevent a severed head from growing back into two heads,
dogs. at least 5 points of fire or acid damage must be dealt to the stump
Although intelligent, a howler requires training before it can pqqrs
bear a rider in combat. To be trained, a howler must have a friendly
attitude toward the trainer (this can be achieved through a suc- BEHIND THE CURTAIN: HYDRAS
cessful Diplomacy check). Training a friendly howler requires six Hydras are intended to be monsters that are difficult to defeat by
weeks of work and a DC 25 Handle Animal check. Riding a conventional means. Characters without the Improved Sunder feat will
howler requires an exotic saddle. A howler can fight while carry- find it difficult and dangerous to attack by lopping off the monster’s
ing a rider, but the rider cannot also attack unless he or she suc- heads, and the hydra’s fast healing ability means that damage directed
ceeds on a Ride check. at its body is quickly restored. The hydra rewards characters who have
Carrying Capacity: A light load for a howler is up to 460 the Improved Sunder feat and parties who learn to coordinate their 155
pounds; a medium load, 461–920 pounds; and a heavy load, attacks effectively.
pqqrs
921–1,380 pounds. A howler can drag 6,900 pounds.

(a touch attack to hit) before the new heads appear. A flaming Fast Healing (Ex): Each round, a hydra heals damage equal to
weapon (or similar effect) deals its energy damage to the stump in 10 + the number of its original heads.
the same blow in which a head is severed. Fire or acid damage Skills: Hydras have a +2 racial bonus on Listen and Spot checks,
from an area effect (such as a fireball spell or dragon breath) may thanks to their multiple heads.
burn multiple stumps in addition to dealing damage to the hydra’s A hydra has a +8 racial bonus on any Swim check to perform
body. A hydra does not die from losing its heads until all its heads some special action or avoid a hazard. It can always choose to take
have been cut off and the stumps seared by fire or acid. 10 on a Swim check, even if distracted or endangered. It can use
A hydra’s body can be slain the run action while swimming, provided it swims in a straight
just like any other crea- line.
ture’s, but hydras possess Feats: A hydra’s Combat Reflexes feat
fast healing (see below) Hydra allows it to use all its heads for attacks of
and are difficult to defeat opportunity.
in this fashion. Any at-
