ABOLETH
coming into contact with and inhaling this substance must suc-
The cool, refreshing water suddenly erupts in a storm of reaching, grasp- ceed on a DC 19 Fortitude save or lose the ability to breathe air for
ing tentacles. The tentacles connect to a primeval fish, 20 feet in length the next 3 hours. An affected creature suffocates in 2d6 minutes if
from its bulbous head to its crescent-shaped tail. Three slit-shaped eyes, removed from the water. Renewed contact with the mucus cloud
protected by bony ridges, are set one atop the other in the front of its head, and failing another Fortitude save continues the effect for
which remains just beneath the surface as it attacks. another 3 hours. The save DC is Constitution-based.
Skills:An aboleth has a +8 racial bonus on any
The aboleth is a revolting fishlike amphibian found primarily in Swim check to perform some special action or
subterranean lakes and rivers. It despises all nonaquatic creatures avoid a hazard. It can always choose to take
and attempts to destroy them on sight. 10 on a Swim check, even if distracted
An aboleth has a pink belly. Four pulsating blue- or endangered. It can use the
black orifices line the bottom of its body and se- run action while swim-
crete gray slime that smells like rancid grease. ming, provided it swims
It uses its tail for propulsion in the water in a straight line.
and drags itself along with its ten-
tacles on land. An aboleth weighs
about 6,500 pounds.
Aboleths are cruel and
highly intelligent, mak-
ing them dangerous pred-
ators. They know many ancient and terrible
secrets, for they inherit their parents’ knowl-
edge at birth and assimilate the memories of Aboleth
all they consume.
Aboleths are smart enough to refrain
from immediately attacking land dwellers
who draw near. Instead they hang back,
hoping their prey will enter the water, which
they often make appear cool, clear, and refreshing with their
powers of illusion. Aboleths also use their psionic abilities to ABOLETH MAGE
enslave individuals for use against their own companions. Among the watery tombs and dungeons they inhabit, the lords of
Aboleths have both male and female reproductive organs. They the aboleths focus their efforts to achieve dominion through their
breed in solitude, laying 1d3 eggs every five years. These eggs grow study of wizardry. Their great power marks them as among the
for another five years before hatching into full-grown aboleths. lords of all subterranean creatures. Still, these creatures, devoted
Although the young are physically mature, they remain with their to their arcane scholarship, spend most of their long lives alone.
parent for some ten years, obeying the older creature utterly.
Aboleths speak their own language, as well as Undercommon Combat
and Aquan. The save DC for the aboleth mage’s transformation tentacle
attack (DC 21) and its mucus cloud (DC 21) are adjusted for its
COMBAT higher Constitution score. The save DC for its enslave ability
An aboleth attacks by flailing with its long, slimy tentacles, (DC 16) is adjusted for its lower Charisma score, as are the save
though it prefers to fight from a distance using its illusion powers. DCs for its psionic abilities:Hypnotic pattern(DC 14), illusory wall
Enslave (Su):Three times per day, an aboleth can attempt to (DC 16), mirage arcana(DC 17), persistent image(DC 17), pro-
enslave any one living creature within 30 feet. The target must grammed image(DC 18), project image(DC 19), veil(DC 18). Effec-
succeed on a DC 17 Will save or be affected as though by a domi- tive caster level 16th.
nate personspell (caster level 16th). An enslaved creature obeys the The aboleth mage uses a number of spells, such as displacement,
aboleth’s telepathic commands until freed by remove curse,and can greater invisibility, and wall of force, to protect itself while seizing
attempt a new Will save every 24 hours to break free. The control control of its foes with spells and innate abilities.
is also broken if the aboleth dies or travels more than 1 mile from Typical Wizard Spells Prepared (4/6/5/4/4/3; save DC 15 + spell
8 its slave. The save DC is Charisma-based. level): 0—daze, detect magic (2), resistance; 1st—alarm, charm person,
Psionics (Sp):At will—hypnotic pattern(DC 15), illusory wall(DC color spray, mage armor, magic missile(2); 2nd—blur, bull’s strength,
17), mirage arcana(DC 18), persistent image(DC 18), programmed darkness, fox’s cunning, see invisibilty; 3rd—dispel magic, displacement,

Aboleth Aboleth Mage, 10th-Level Wizard
Huge Aberration (Aquatic) Huge Aberration (Aquatic)
Hit Dice: 8d8+40 (76 hp) 8d8+56 plus 10d4+70 (177 hp)
Initiative: +1 +7
Speed: 10 ft. (2 squares), swim 60 ft. 10 ft. (2 squares), swim 60 ft.
Armor Class: 16 (–2 size, +1 Dex, +7 natural), 18 (–2 size, +3 Dex, +7 natural), touch 11, flat-footed 15
touch 9, flat-footed 15
Base Attack/Grapple: +6/+22 +11/+28
Attack: Tentacle +12 melee (1d6+8 plus slime) Tentacle +18 melee (1d6+9 plus slime)
Full Attack: 4 tentacles +12 melee (1d6+8 plus slime) 4 tentacles +18 melee (1d6+9 plus slime)
Space/Reach: 15 ft./10 ft. 15 ft./10 ft.
Special Attacks: Enslave, psionics, slime Enslave, psionics, slime, spells
