ALLIP ANGEL
Medium Undead (Incorporeal) Angels are a race of celestials, beings who live on the good-aligned
Hit Dice:4d12 (26 hp) Outer Planes. Celestials positively drip with goodness—every fiber
Initiative:+5 of their bodies and souls is suffused with it. They are the natural ene-
Speed: Fly 30 ft. (perfect) (6 squares) mies of demons and devils (creatures of the infernal realms).
Armor Class:15 (+1 Dex, +4 deflection), touch 15, flat-footed 14 Angels can be of any good alignment. Lawful good angels hail
Base Attack/Grapple:+2/— from the plane of Celestia, neutral good angels from the plane of
Attack:Incorporeal touch +3 melee (1d4 Wisdom drain) Elysium or the Beastlands, and chaotic good angels from plane of
Full Attack:Incorporeal touch +3 melee (1d4 Wisdom drain) Arborea. Regardless of their alignment, angels never lie, cheat, or
Space/Reach:5 ft./5 ft. steal. They are impeccably honorable in all their dealings and often
Special Attacks:Babble, madness, Wisdom drain prove the most trustworthy and diplomatic of all the celestials.
Special Qualities:Darkvision 60 ft., incorporeal traits, +2 turn All angels are blessed with comely looks, though their actual
resistance, undead traits appearances vary widely.
Saves:Fort +1, Ref +4, Will +4 Angels speak Celestial, Infernal, and Draconic, though they can
Abilities:Str —, Dex 12, Con —, Int 11, Wis 11, Cha 18 speak with almost any creature because of their tongues ability.
Skills:Hide +8, Intimidate +7, Listen +7, Search +4, Spot +7,
Survival +0 (+2 following tracks) COMBAT
Feats:Improved Initiative, Lightning Reflexes Though they are honorable and good, angels don’t hesitate to back
Environment:Any up their arguments with their weapons and other powers when
Organization:Solitary necessary. Though they do not relish combat, they do not hesitate
Challenge Rating:3 to take the battle to the enemy. In combat, most angels make full
Treasure:None use of their mobility and their ability to attack at a distance.
Alignment:Always neutral evil Angel Traits:An angel possesses the following traits (unless
Advancement:5–12 HD (Medium) otherwise noted in a creature’s entry).
Level Adjustment:— —Darkvision out to 60 feet and low-light vision.
—Immunity to acid, cold, and petrification.
The creature that floats before you is like a thing out of nightmare. It has a —Resistance to electricity 10 and fire 10.
10 vaguely humanoid shape, but it’s a shape without features that has been — +4 racial bonus on saves against poison.
distorted and bristles with madness. From the waist down, it trails away into —Protective Aura (Su): Against attacks made or effects created by
vaporous nothingness, leaving a faint trace of fog behind it as it moves. evil creatures, this ability provides a +4 deflection bonus to AC and a

+4 resistance bonus on saving throws to anyone within 20 feet of the round with its mace, that creature must succeed on a DC 22
angel. Otherwise, it functions as a magic circle against evileffect and a Fortitude save or be stunned for 1d6 rounds. The save DC is
lesser globe of invulnerability, both with a radius of 20 feet (caster level Strength-based.
equals angel’s HD). This aura can be dispelled, but the angel can Uncanny Dodge (Ex):An astral deva retains its Dexterity
create it again as a free action on its next turn. (The defensive bene- bonus to AC when flat-footed, and it cannot be flanked except by
fits from the circle are not included in an angel’s statistics block.) a rogue of at least 16th level. It can flank characters with the
—Tongues (Su):All angels can speak with any creature that has a uncanny dodge ability as if it were a 12th-level rogue.
language, as though using a tonguesspell (caster level equal to
angel’s Hit Dice). This ability is always active. ANGEL, PLANETAR
Large Outsider (Angel, Extraplanar, Good)
ANGEL, ASTRAL DEVA Hit Dice:14d8+70 (133 hp)
Medium Outsider (Angel, Extraplanar, Good) Initiative:+8
Hit Dice:12d8+48 (102 hp) Speed:30 ft. (6 squares), fly 90 ft. (good)
