ANKHEG
Animated Object, Colossal
Colossal Construct Large Magical Beast
Hit Dice: 32d10+80 (256 hp) Hit Dice:3d10+12 (28 hp)
Initiative: –3 Initiative:+0
Speed: 10 ft. (2 squares); 20 ft. legs, Speed:30 ft. (6 squares), burrow 20 ft.
30 ft. multiple legs, 50 ft. wheels Armor Class:18 (–1 size, +9 natural), touch 9, flat-footed 18
Armor Class: 11 (–8 size, –3 Dex, +12 natural), Base Attack/Grapple:+3/+12
touch –1, flat-footed 11 Attack:Bite +7 melee (2d6+7 plus 1d4 acid)
Base Attack/Grapple: +24/+49 Full Attack:Bite +7 melee (2d6+7 plus 1d4 acid)
Attack: Slam +25 melee (4d6+13) Space/Reach:10 ft./5 ft.
Full Attack: Slam +25 melee (4d6+13) Special Attacks:Improved grab, spit acid
Space/Reach: 30 ft./20 ft. (long) Special Qualities:Darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision, tremor-
30 ft./30 ft. (tall) sense 60 ft.
Special Attacks: See text Saves:Fort +6, Ref +3, Will +2
Special Qualities: Construct traits, darkvision 60 ft., Abilities:Str 21, Dex 10, Con 17, Int 1, Wis 13, Cha 6
low-light vision; also see text Skills:Climb +8, Listen +6, Spot +3
Saves: Fort +10, Ref +7, Will +5 Feats:Alertness, Toughness
Abilities: Str 28, Dex 4, Con —, Environment:Warm plains
Int —, Wis 1, Cha 1 Organization:Solitary or cluster (2–4)
Skills: — Challenge Rating:3
Feats: — Treasure:None
Environment: Any Alignment:Always neutral
Organization: Solitary Advancement:4 HD (Large); 5–9 HD (Huge)
Challenge Rating: 10 Level Adjustment:—
Treasure: None
Alignment: Always neutral A huge segmented insect with slender legs, each ending in a sharp claw,
Advancement: — emerges from the ground in a burst of rock and dirt. A tough chitinous
Level Adjustment: — brown shell covers its entire body, and glistening black eyes stare out from
above powerful mandibles.
make attacks of opportunity against the object can attempt Reflex The ankheg is a burrowing monster with a taste for fresh meat.
saves (DC 10 + 1/2 object’s HD + object’s Str modifier) to halve the An ankheg has six legs, and some specimens are yellow
damage. rather than brown. It is about 10 feet long and weighs about
800 pounds.
14

An ankheg burrows with legs and mandibles. A burrowing Feats:Improved Initiative, Iron WillB, Weapon Finesse
ankheg usually does not make a usable tunnel, but can construct Environment:Temperate forests
a tunnel; it burrows at half speed when it does so. It often digs a Organization:Solitary or colony (3–6)
winding tunnel up to 40 feet below the surface in the rich soil of Challenge Rating:4
forests or farmlands. The tunnel is 5 feet tall and wide, and from 60 Treasure:Standard coins; double goods; standard items
to 150 feet long ([1d10 + 5] ×10). The hollowed ends of the tunnel Alignment:Usually neutral
serve as temporary lairs for sleeping, eating, or hibernating. Advancement:By character class
An ankheg can eat decayed organic matter but prefers fresh Level Adjustment:+4
meat. Though a hungry ankheg might kill a farmer, the creature is
quite beneficial to farmland. Its tunnel system laces the soil with The creature appears to be a monstrous spider, but it has two small
passages for air and water, while its wastes add rich nutrients. humanlike arms below its mandibles.
COMBAT An aranea is an intelligent, shapechanging spider with sorcerous ARANEA
An ankheg usually lies 5 to 10 feet below the powers. In its natural form, an aranea resembles a big spider, with
surface until its antennae detect a humpbacked body a little bigger than a human torso. It has
the approach of prey. It fanged mandibles like a normal spider. Two small arms, each about
then burrows up to 2 feet long, lie below the mandibles. Each arm has a hand with
attack. (Treat this as a four many-jointed fingers and a
charge, even though Ankheg double-jointed thumb.
the ankheg does not An aranea weighs about 150
need to move 10 feet pounds. The hump on its back
before attacking.) houses its brain.
Clusters of ank- Araneas speak Common and
hegs share the Sylvan.
same territory but
do not cooperate. If COMBAT
several attack, each An aranea avoids physical com-
tries to grab a different foe. If bat and uses its webs and
there aren’t enough targets, spells when it can. In
two might grab the a battle, it tries to
same creature in a immobilize or distract
tug-of-war. the most aggressive
Improved opponents first.
Grab(Ex): To Araneas often
use this ability, an subdue opponents
ankheg must hit with for ransom.
its bite attack. It can then attempt to start a grapple as a free action Poison (Ex):Injury, Fortitude DC 13, initial damage 1d6 Str,
without provoking an attack of opportunity. If the ankheg is dam- secondary damage 2d6 Str. The save DC is Constitution-based.
aged after grabbing its prey, it retreats backward down its tunnel at Spells:An aranea casts spells as a 3rd-level sorcerer. It prefers
its land speed (not its burrow speed), dragging the victim with it. illusions and enchantments and avoids fire spells.
Spit Acid (Ex):30-ft. line, once every 6 hours; damage 4d4 Typical Sorcerer Spells Known(6/6; save DC 12 + spell level): 0—
acid, Reflex DC 14 half. One such attack depletes the ankheg’s daze, detect magic, ghost sound, light, resistance; 1st—mage armor, silent
acid supply for 6 hours. It cannot spit acid or deal acid damage image, sleep.
during this time. The save DC is Constitution-based. Web (Ex):In spider or hybrid form (see below), an aranea
An ankheg does not use this ability unless it is desperate or can throw a web up to six times per day. This is similar to an
frustrated. It most often spits acid when reduced to fewer than attack with a net but has a maximum range of 50 feet, with a
half its full normal hit points or when it has not successfully range increment of 10 feet, and is effective against targets of
grabbed an opponent. up to Large size. The web anchors the target in place, allowing
no movement.
An entangled creature can escape with a DC 13 Escape Artist
