APT
number of skill points a creature has depends on its type, Hit Dice, attacks (very useful for Small, Tiny, and Diminutive creatures).
and Intelligence; see Table 5–4. Assume that any skill you choose Likewise, very big or strong creatures benefit from Power Attack, STE KI
for the creature is a class skill, and each rank costs 1 skill point. which allows them to convert points from their attack bonus NG ER
The maximum rank for any skill is the creature’s Hit Dice + 3. A into extra damage. RS
5:
creature with less than 1 Hit Die is treated as having 1 Hit Die for
the purpose of determining skill points and maximum skill rank. SPACE/REACH
This entry describes how much space the creature takes up on the
Table 5–4: Skill Points by Monster Type
battle grid and needs to fight effectively, as well as how close it has
Type Skill Points to be to an opponent to threaten that opponent.
Aberration (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) × (HD+3) A creature’s Space/Reach entry depends on its size, as shown on
Animal (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) × (HD+3) Table 7–1: Creature Sizes (page 314). A creature’s space is always a
Construct* (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) × (HD+3) square area, no matter what the creature’s shape or anatomy is like.
Dragon (6 + Int modifier, minimum 1) × (HD+3) For example, an ogre and a horse have the same space figure (10
Elemental (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) × (HD+3) feet), because they’re both Large creatures.
Fey (6 + Int modifier, minimum 1) × (HD+3) Tall creatures (bipeds, usually) have a longer reach than long
Giant (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) × (HD+3) creatures. For example, a horse has a reach of 5 feet, but an ogre
Humanoid** (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) × (HD+3) has a reach of 10 feet because it is taller.
Magical beast (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) × (HD+3) Some creatures have exceptional reach due to a particular weap-
Monstrous humanoid (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) × (HD+3) on choice or a quirk of anatomy. It’s all right to assign a special
Ooze* (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) × (HD+3) reach figure that applies to a particular attack (such as the roper’s
Outsider (8 + Int modifier, minimum 1) × (HD+3) strands).
Plant* (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) × (HD+3)
Undead* (4 + Int modifier, minimum 1) × (HD+3) ENVIRONMENT
Vermin* (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) × (HD+3) Consider where the creature lives and choose a preferred climate
* Mindless creatures receive no skill points or feats. (warm, temperate, or cold) and terrain (plains, hills, forest, marsh,
** Or by character class. mountains, or desert). Your monster is not restricted to that com-
bination of climate and terrain, but it’s the setting the monster is
It is important to consider your concept when assigning skills. Crea- most likely to be encountered in.
tures that live by hunting need Hide, Spot, and Listen, and probably Creatures that have no place in the natural environment (par-
Move Silently. Creatures that use spells or spell-like abilities need ticularly constructs and undead) usually have an entry of “Any.”
Concentration and probably Spellcraft. Creatures that do not have a Extraplanar outsiders should be assigned a plane of origin.
climb or swim speed may benefit from Climb or Swim. Skills such
as Balance and Escape Artist can be useful for almost any creature. TREASURE
A creature’s final skill modifier consists of: skill ranks + ability Most creatures will have no treasure (None) or standard treasure.
modifier + size modifier (for Hide) + movement mode modifier Very intelligent creatures might have double or triple treasure.
(for Climb, Jump, or Swim) + racial bonuses (if any) + synergy Some creatures may collect only certain types of treasure. See
bonuses (if any) + armor check modifier (if any). You may decide Table 3–5, page 52 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide.
to purchase feats that change the creature’s skill modifiers, too.
Conditional Bonuses: If the creature has conditional ability ALIGNMENT
adjustments, do not apply them in the Skills entry. Instead, mark What alignment does your monster have? Choose lawful, neutral,
the skill modifier with an asterisk and note the conditional modi- or chaotic, followed by good, neutral, or evil. All alignments have
fier in the creature’s description. a qualifier: always, usually, or often. See page 305 for details.
Racial Skill Bonuses: Often a creature will need a better skill pqqrs
modifier than its abilities and skill points allow. In such cases, it’s a
good idea to assign it a racial bonus (which is effective all the time), or SKILLS THE QUICK WAY
a specific circumstance bonus. For example, most big cats get bonuses Instead of fretting about each skill point, an easy way to assign skills to
on Hide and Move Silently checks, and even larger conditional a monster is to simply buy a number of skills, all at the creature’s maxi-
bonuses on Hide and Move Silently checks when they’re in the right mum ranks. The number of individual skills a creature can choose this
terrain. They’d have a hard time surviving as predators without them. way is equal to its Intelligence modifier plus the base number of skill
points a creature of its type receives per HD. For example, undead have
