AREA 6: APE DEN (EL 5)
dire apes from area 6 (see the Development sections in
The south door to this chamber is barred from the
those areas for details).
south side, but not locked.
Treasure: A small bag or box of valuables is
The hobgoblins keep a pair of dire apes in this room.
stowed near each bed in this room. The container
Read or paraphrase the following when the characters
either lies underneath the bed or hangs from the frame.
enter.
If the PCs search all the beds, they can collect the fol-
lowing: 300 gp, 600 sp, 12 pieces of hematite (worth 10
The door opens to reveal a dingy chamber that
gp each), 8 pieces of malachite (worth 10 gp each), 10
reeks of excrement and rotted flesh. By the light
moss agates (worth 10 gp each), a set of eight of ivory
of a single touch set in the north wall, two gaunt,
dice with gold and amber pips (worth 8 gp each), 2
feral apes, both well equipped with claws and
silver cups (worth 12 gp each, 3 gold armbands (worth
teeth, are visible. In the northeast corner beyond
25 gp each), and a serpentine statuette of an erinyes
the apes stands a massive-looking wooden ladder.
devil (worth 80 gp). Its top is out of sight in a vertical shaft that is
easily wide enough to accommodate the apes.
Area 4a: Storeroom
The apes don’t seem too pleased with the intru-
The walls, ceiling, and floor of this area are all made of
sion. They bare their bloodstained teeth and
stone. The hobgoblins keep their food and drink here.
bellow out inhuman sounds that seem half growl,
Most of their provisions consist of game taken from the half scream. 5
surface, so several dressed carcasses hang from hooks

The ladder in the northeast corner leads up about 12 and a small water clock. About half the parchments are
feet to a dead end. Three feet of packed earth separate blank; the rest contain notes that form a sort of per-
the end of the shaft from the surface. The hobgoblins sonal journal (see the Creatures section, below, for
created this feature to serve as an emergency exit for details).
the outpost. With about 1 minute of digging, a charac- In a niche in the north wall is a pile of humanoid
ter working with a shovel or a sword can clear away the skulls (mostly human and elf). Set into the wall above
dirt and open a path to the surface. them is a small, double-bitted axe made from a single
The torch stuck in the north wall is an everburning piece of silver. An artful combination of black and red
torch,set here to give the apes some light. It can easily enamel makes the blades appear to be dripping blood.
be removed. The axe is the symbol of the deity Maglubiyet, patron
Creatures:As noted above, this chamber serves as of goblins and hobgoblins. Though useless as a tool or
the lair of two dire apes. weapon, it’s worth 75 gp.
DDire Apes (2):hp 35 each; see page 62 in the Creature: The hobgoblin adept Hoortchuc calls
Monster Manual. this chamber home. He spends most of his time here
Tactics: The adept in area 7 has reared and trained considering plans for future raids, composing sermons
these apes to serve as fighting creatures. They attack to deliver to the rest of the outpost, and scribbling in
any creature they see, except goblins or hobgoblins. If a his journal in Goblin.
foe should enter through the south door, both apes The journal features a careful accounting of the
move to attack. Should the foe come from the west, passing days, since Hoortchuc must give a sermon
where there’s room for only one ape to fight, the closest every eight days. He also fills many pages with theolog-
one charges in while the other tries to burst through ical musings, and these notes form the basis of his ser-
the south door and attack the foe through area 7. (The mons. In addition, the adept keeps notes on all the loot
apes aren’t very smart, but they know the outposts’ and slaves the warband has collected. His journal indi-
layout and they’re eager to fight.) cates that the band has captured far more slaves and
Development: If the PCs get this far without taken considerably more loot than the outpost actually
alerting the hobgoblins to their presence, the screams contains at present. Most of the missing treasure and
of the apes serve as an effective alarm. If Hoortchuc, slaves have been passed on to the local tribal chieftain.
the adept from area 7, is still alive, he is the first to The hobgoblins have spent the remaining cash and
arrive. killed the remaining slaves, either in gladiatorial
If a general alarm has been raised before the party matches or as sacrifices to their god, Maglubiyet.
gets this far, the hobgoblins in area 4 have already sent Hoortchuc also handles the feeding and ongoing
a slave here (and one each to areas 7 and 8). Upon arriv- training of the apes in area 6. He isn’t too concerned
ing, the goblin goes to the south door and waits for the about their hygiene, which accounts for the stench in
adept in area 7 to release the apes. If Hoortchuc does the apes’ den.
not appear within 3 rounds, the goblin lifts the bar to DHoortchuc:Male hobgoblin Expert 2/Adept 2;
the south door and releases the creatures himself. CR 4; Medium humanoid (goblinoid); HD 2d6+2 plus
Once out of their chamber, the apes first try to go to 2d6+2; hp 18; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.; AC 11, touch 11, flat-
area 7 to find the adept, if he is not present. If footed 10; Base Atk +2; Grp +1; Atk +1 (1d6–1, quarter-
Hoortchuc is dead or absent, or if the apes can’t get into staff) or +3 ranged (1d8/19–20, light crossbow); Full
area 7, they go to area 4 and attack the first enemy they Atk +1 (1d6–1, quarterstaff) or +3 ranged (1d8/19–20,
see or scent. If the adept is not on hand to take charge light crossbow); AL LE; SV Fort +1, Ref +1, Will +10; Str
of the apes, the goblin slave picks up the everburning 8, Dex 12, Con 13, Int 15, Wis 14, Cha 12.
torchfrom the north wall and follows the apes. If the Skills and Feats:Appraise +9 (+11 for appraisals relat-
adept does take over, the goblin follows along but slips ing to metalwork or traps), Concentration +6, Craft
off to area 10 at the first opportunity. (metalworking) +7, Craft (trapmaking) +7, Diplomacy
+3, Handle Animal +8, Heal +7, Intimidate +6, Knowl-
