AREA 1: ENTRANCES (EL 1)
out falling into the pit trap at the bottom, the guard
Each of these three areas provides access to the surface
tries to block off the passage. He stands at the top of the
via a vertical shaft about 20 feet long. The top of each
raised ledge and uses the total defense action until his
shaft is capped with a trapdoor disguised as a stump, a
comrades from area 2 arrive (see area 2).
rock, or a tuft of bushes. A searcher who has not actu-
The extra hobgoblins take up positions in the
ally seen another creature using an entrance needs a
alcoves to either side of the raised ledge. The one in the
successful Search check (DC 20) to find it. The hobgob-
middle attacks the intruder, gaining a +1 bonus on his
lins are careful not to use any single entrance so often
attack rolls for being on higher ground. Both of the
as to create a trail or path leading to it, and they usually
additional hobgoblins use the aid another action—one
double back on their own tracks when entering or leav-
to improve the center warrior’s Armor Class, and the
ing the outpost.
other to improve his attack rolls.
These entrances reflect the hobgoblins’ passion for
Trap: A pit with an exceptionally sturdy cover lies
defense. They usually employ crude wooden ladders
at the bottom of each shaft. These pits can provide a
(Climb DC –5) to move between the outpost and the
rude shock for intruders who try to force their way into
surface, but the ladders are stowed against the nearby
the outpost.
walls when not in use. The guard on duty places a
aCovered Pit Trap:CR 1; mechanical; location
ladder in a shaft only when he hears someone open the
trigger; automatic reset, DC 15 Reflex save avoids; 10 ft.
trapdoor at the top and speak the correct password for
deep (1d6, fall); pit spikes (Atk +10 melee, 1 spike for
that day—in Goblin. The ladder is removed and stowed
1d6); Search (DC 20); Disable Device (DC 20). Market
again immediately after each use. Getting a ladder into
Price: 1,000 gp.
place usually takes about 1 minute. The hobgoblins
The pit cover is hinged in the middle and can spin
have, however, made provisions for a rapid descent (see
freely when not latched. One side of it is thickly
the Trap section, below).
padded, so that anyone who deliberately jumps down
The walls of the entrance shafts look just like the
onto it from the trapdoor above takes only 1d6 points of
walls in the rest of the outpost. However, the stones in
2 nonlethal damage, or no damage at all with a successful

Jump or Tumble check (DC 10). Normally, the damage time, and worship in area 9 can get noisy, too. Once
and the check DC for such a jump would be greater, they decide to investigate, however, one guard goes to
even for a landing on a soft surface, but the pit covers the scene of the disturbance, and the other carries a
are specifically designed and built to cushion falls. warning to area 4, then returns here to wait for her
When the cover is unlatched, anyone jumping or comrade. If the absent sentry fails to return after 1d4+3
falling from the shaft takes damage from it as noted rounds, the sentry here calls the guard at the entrance,
above, but the pit cover also spins and dumps the and the two go off to join the fray themselves. The pair
victim into the pit below. The pit is 10 feet deep, and first goes to area 4 or 8 to get orders, but if no one is
the bottom is lined with spikes. Together, the fall and present in either area to instruct them, they seek out
the spikes deal 2d6 points of damage. Anyone merely the battle themselves.
stepping on the unlatched pit cover can attempt a Should any intruders get past the guard at the
Reflex save (DC 15) to avoid falling in. entrance without making a lot of noise, these guards
Development: Any combat here is certain to try to delay them as long as possible, using tactics simi-
attract the attention of additional guards at the nearest lar to those described for area 1.
guardpost (area 2). Any prolonged negotiation or other Development:Should a fight develop in any of
noise that doesn’t involve a fight eventually draws the the guardposts, the hobgoblins from the rest of the out-
attention of the sentries at the nearest guardpost (see post eventually converge there, as noted in the various
the Development section of area 2). Development sections.
The entrance guards tend to stay at their posts no
matter what else happens in the outpost. If called away AREA 3: TRASH DUMP
by the warriors at area 2 (see the Development section The door to this chamber is not locked, and it opens
there), the guard here unlatches the pit cover before easily.
leaving. The hobgoblins pile all their refuse here. The place
features a great, smelly heap of used bedding and cook-
