AREA 10: SLAVE QUARTERS (EL 1)
the entrances (Climb DC 20). The pit covers are pad-
The door leading to this room is barred from the out-
locked from the top; otherwise, they are just like the
side but is not locked.
doors in the rest of the outpost.
Creatures:Seven goblin slaves (see area 4 for sta-
Four 1st-level elf warriors are presently incarcerated
tistics) live here in squalid conditions, but only four of
here. (Use the statistics from page 102 in the Monster
them are here at any given time, and they are asleep
Manual,except that these elves have no equipment and
unless the PCs have been very noisy. They don’t really
2 hit points each.) They are starved nearly to death and
mind the filth.
in no shape to fight, but they are willing to give it a try
Each goblin has a pile of straw and twigs for a bed.
if the PCs insist.
The slaves also have their own cooking pit and utensils,
If the PCs release these captives, the local elf lord
plus a small cache of supplies.
offers them each a reward of 75 gp.
Tactics:If the PCs enter this chamber, the goblins
promptly hurl themselves at the characters’ feet and ABOUT THE AUTHOR
beg them to have mercy on poor, abused slaves. If
attacked, the goblins do their best to evade blows and Skip Williams has been active in the game industry
escape from the outpost. since 1974, when he took up wargaming and roleplay-
Development:Once the alarm is sounded, the ing while still in high school. He soon got an after-
goblin slaves from area 4 carry out their assignments school job at TSR, Inc., the original publisher of the
and then try to make their way here and release their D&D game, and the rest (as they say) is history. Skip is
fellow goblins. If they manage to do so, all the goblins a codesigner of the 3rd Edition D&D game (versions
try to slip away from the outpost, either through one 3.0 and 3.5) and the chief architect of the Monster
the entrances or via the emergency exit in area 6. Manual. He also coauthored the FORGOTTEN REALMS
If the PCs try to question the goblins here, the level Campaign Setting.Skip keeps busy with freelance proj-
of cooperation they get depends on what has happened ects for several different game companies and has
to the hobgoblins in the outpost thus far. If the goblins beenDRAGONMagazine’s Sage since 1986. When not
believe (or know) that their hobgoblin masters have devising swift and cruel deaths for player characters,
been defeated, they fawn on the PCs and truthfully Skip putters in his kitchen or garden (his borscht gets
answer any questions put to them. The goblins know rave reviews).
8

Monster Manual v.3.5 Errata
• DR X/slashing, piercing, or bludgeoning
Errata Rule: Primary Sources
should be (Ex)
When you find a disagreement between two D&D rules • DR X/adamantine should be (Ex)
sources, unless an official errata file says otherwise, the • DR X/-- should be (Ex)
primary source is correct. One example of a
• DR X/silver or cold iron should be (Su)
primary/secondary source is text taking precedence over
• DR X/magic should be (Su)
a table entry. An individual spell description takes
• DR X/chaotic, lawful, holy, or unholy should
precedence when the short description in the beginning
be (Su)
of the spells chapter disagrees. A monster’s statistics
block supersedes the descriptive text. Improved Natural Attack Feat
Another example of primary vs. secondary sources You can take this feat multiple times, but each time it
involves book and topic precedence. The Player’s applies to a different natural attack.
Handbook, for example, gives all the rules for playing
the game, for PC races, and the base class descriptions. Rend
If you find something on one of those topics from the Sometimes two values are listed for rend: one on the
Dungeon Master’s Guide or the Monster Manual that special attacks line and one in the paragraph describing
disagrees with the Player’s Handbook, you should rend. The correct value is listed on the special attacks
assume the Player’s Handbook is the primary source. line.
The Dungeon Master’s Guide is the primary source for
Weapon Finesse Feat
topics such as magic item descriptions, special material
Some creatures that have this feat lack the +1 base
construction rules, and so on. The Monster Manual is
attack bonus prerequisite. Since bonus feats do not
the primary source for monster descriptions, templates,
require the creature to fulfill any feat prerequisites (see
and supernatural, extraordinary, and spell-like abilities.
page 301 in the Monster Manual), make the Weapon
Note: The most recent updates are shaded like this.
Finesse feat a bonus feat and add an additional feat (see
General Changes the table below).
These changes are global and apply to an assortment of Alternate Form (Page 305)
creatures.
Make the following changes.
Delete the second sentence of the entry.
Damage Reduction
Add the following text to the body of the ability
Damage Reduction is either extraordinary (Ex) or
description:
supernatural (Su). Use the following guidelines if it is
not specified.
Weapon Finesse Bonus Feat Changes
Creature Feat Change
Pseudodragon Alertness +2 on Listen and Spot checks
Sprite, Grig Stealthy +2 on Hide and Move Silently checks
Sprite, Nixie Alertness +2 on Listen and Spot checks
Sprite, Pixie Alertness +2 on Listen and Spot checks
Swarm, Rat Stealthy +2 on Hide and Move Silently checks
Vargouille Stealthy +2 on Hide and Move Silently checks
Animals
Badger Agile +2 on Balance and Escape Artist checks
Cat Stealthy +2 on Hide and Move Silently checks
Eagle Alertness +2 on Listen and Spot checks
Hawk Alertness +2 on Listen and Spot checks
Lizard Stealthy +2 on Hide and Move Silently checks
Monkey Agile +2 on Balance and Escape Artist checks
Owl Alertness +2 on Listen and Spot checks
Rat Stealthy +2 on Hide and Move Silently checks
Raven Alertness +2 on Listen and Spot checks
Snake Improved Initiative +4 on Initiative checks
Weasel Agile +2 on Balance and Escape Artist checks
Monster Manual v.3.5 Errata 2/17/06
Page 1
©2006 Wizards of the Coast, Inc., a subsidiary of Hasbro, Inc. All rights reserved.

A true seeing spell or ability reveals the creature’s —Any gear worn or carried by the creature that can’t be
natural form. A creature using alternate form reverts to worn or carried in its new form instead falls to the
its natural form when killed, but separated body parts ground in its space. If the creature changes size, any
retain their shape. A creature cannot use alternate form gear it wears or carries that can be worn or carried in its
to take the form of a creature with a template. new form changes size to match the new size.
Add the following text to Line 1 of the changes: (Nonhumanoid-shaped creatures can’t wear armor
If the new form has the aquatic subtype, the creature designed for humanoid-shaped creatures, and vice-
gains that subtype as well. versa.) Gear returns to normal size if dropped.
Replace Line 2 of the changes with the following text:
Creatures
—The creature loses the natural weapons, natural
armor, and movement modes of its original form, as The following text amends the existing entries.
well as any extraordinary special attacks of its original
Angel, Astral Deva
form not derived from class levels (such as the
barbarian’s rage class feature). Monster Manual, page 11
Add the following text to the end of Line 6 of the Remove “polymorph (self only)” from spell-like
changes: abilities.
Apply any changed physical ability score modifiers in Add the following entry:
all appropriate areas with one exception: the creature Change Shape (Su): An astral deva can assume the
retains the hit points of its original form despite any form of any Small or Medium humanoid.
change to its Constitution.
Angel, Astral Deva
Replace Line 7 of the changes with the following text:
Monster Manual, page 11
— Except as described elsewhere, the creature retains
Remove “polymorph (self only)” from spell-like
all other game statistics of its original form, including
abilities.
(but not necessarily limited to) HD, hit points, skill
Change Shape (Su): A planetar can assume the form of
ranks, feats, base attack bonus, and base save bonuses.
any Small or Medium humanoid.
Add the following text to the end of the entry.
—Any gear worn or carried by the creature that can’t be Angel, Solar
worn or carried in its new form instead falls to the
Monster Manual, page 12
ground in its space. If the creature changes size, any
Remove “polymorph (self only)” from spell-like
gear it wears or carries that can be worn or carried in its
abilities.
new form changes size to match the new size.
Add the following entry:
(Nonhumanoid-shaped creatures can’t wear armor
Change Shape (Su): A solar can assume the form of
designed for humanoid-shaped creatures, and vice-
any Small or Medium humanoid.”
versa.) Gear returns to normal size if dropped.
Problem: Power word stun was listed in spell-like
Change Shape (Page 306–307) abilities as both at will and 1/day.
Solution: It can use power word stun 1/day.
Make the following changes.
Delete the second sentence of the entry. Beholder and Gauth
Add the following text to the body of the ability
Monster Manual, page 26
description:
The eye ray attack is a free action. Increase its bite
A true seeing spell or ability reveals the creature’s
attacks by +5.
natural form. A creature using change shape reverts to
its natural form when killed, but separated body parts Couatl
retain their shape. A creature cannot use change shape Monster Manual, page 37
to take the form of a creature with a template. Remove “polymorph (self only)” from psionic abilities.
Replace Line 2 of the changes with the following text: Add the following entry:
—The creature loses the natural weapons and Change Shape (Su): A couatl can assume the form of
movement modes of its original form, as well as any any Small or Medium humanoid.
extraordinary special attacks of its original form not
Demon, Marilith
derived from class levels (such as the barbarian’s rage
class feature). Monster Manual, page 45
Replace Line 6 of the changes with the following text: Remove “polymorph (self only)” from spell-like
— Except as described elsewhere, the creature retains abilities.
all other game statistics of its original form, including
Demon, Quasit
(but not necessarily limited to) HD, hit points, skill
Monster Manual, page 46
ranks, feats, base attack bonus, and base save bonuses.
Replace the text for Alternate Form with the following
Add the following text to the end of the entry.
text:
Monster Manual v.3.5 Errata 2/17/06
Page 2
©2006 Wizards of the Coast, Inc., a subsidiary of Hasbro, Inc. All rights reserved.

Alternate Form (Su): A quasit can assume another Base Attack/Grapple: +6/+15
form at will as a standard action. Each quasit can Attack: Talons +10 melee (2d6+5)
assume one or two forms from the following list: bat, Full Attack: Talons +10 melee (2d6+5) and 2
Small or Medium monstrous centipede, toad, and wolf. foreclaws +5 melee (1d4+2) and bite +5 melee (1d8+2)
Space/Reach: 10 ft./5 ft.
Demon, Succubus
Special Attacks: Pounce
Monster Manual, page 48
Special Qualities: Low-light vision, scent
Remove “polymorph (self only)” from spell-like
Saves: Fort +10, Ref +8, Will +4
abilities.
Abilities: Str 21, Dex 15, Con 21, Int 2, Wis 15, Cha 10
Add the following entry:
Skills: Hide +9, Jump +27, Listen +12, Spot +12,
Change Shape (Su): A succubus can assume the form
Survival +12
of any Small or Medium humanoid.
Feats: Run, Toughness, Track
Devil, Imp Environment: Warm forests
Organization: Solitary, pair, or pack (3–6)
Monster Manual, page 56
Challenge Rating: 6
Replace the text for Alternate Form with the following
Treasure: None
text:
Alignment: Always neutral
Alternate Form (Su): An imp can assume another form
at will as a standard action. Each imp can assume one or Advancement: 9–16 HD (Large); 17–24 HD (Huge)
two forms from the following list: Small or Medium Level Adjustment: —
monstrous spider, raven, rat, and boar.
Dragon, Red
Dinosaur, Deinonychus Monster Manual, page 77
Monster Manual, page 60 The sample very old red dragon’s typical sorcerer spells
Medium Animal known lists emotion. Replace it with the confusion spell.
Hit Dice: 4d8+16 (34 hp)
Dragon, Bronze
Initiative: +2
Monster Manual, page 82
Speed: 60 ft. (12 squares)
Delete the second sentence of Alternate Form.
Armor Class: 17 (+2 Dex, +5 natural), touch 12, flat-
footed 15 Juvenile Bronze Dragon
Base Attack/Grapple: +3/+7 Monster Manual, page 82
Attack: Talons +7 melee (1d8+4) Delete the second sentence of Alternate Form.
Full Attack: Talons +7 melee (1d8+4) and 2 foreclaws
Dragon, Gold
+2 melee (1d3+2) and bite +2 melee (2d4+2)
Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft. Monster Manual, page 85
Special Attacks: Pounce Delete the second sentence of Alternate Form.
Special Qualities: Low-light vision, scent
Adult Gold Dragon
Saves: Fort +8, Ref +6, Will +2
Monster Manual, page 86
Abilities: Str 19, Dex 15, Con 19, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 10
Delete the second sentence of Alternate Form.
Skills: Hide +12, Jump +26, Listen +10, Spot +10,
Survival +10 Dragon, Silver
Feats: Run, Track Monster Manual, page 87
Environment: Warm forests Delete the second sentence of Alternate Form.
Organization: Solitary, pair, or pack (3–6)
Challenge Rating: 3 Young Adult Silver Dragon
Treasure: None Monster Manual, page 88
Alignment: Always neutral Delete the second sentence of Alternate Form.
Advancement: 5–8 HD (Medium)
Genie, Efreeti
Level Adjustment: —
Monster Manual, page 116
Dinosaur, Megaraptor Remove “polymorph (self only)” from spell-like
Monster Manual, page 60 abilities.
Large Animal Add the following entry:
Hit Dice: 8d8+43 (79 hp) Change Shape (Su): An efreeti can assume the form of
Initiative: +2 any Small, Medium, or Large humanoid or giant.
Speed: 60 ft. (12 squares)
Gibbering Mouther
Armor Class: 17 (–1 size, +2 Dex, +6 natural), touch
Monster Manual, page 126
11, flat-footed 15
Monster Manual v.3.5 Errata 2/17/06
Page 3
©2006 Wizards of the Coast, Inc., a subsidiary of Hasbro, Inc. All rights reserved.

The engulf ability needs additional clarification.
Mephit, Magma
Replace it with the following information.
Monster Manual, page 183
Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, a gibbering
Remove first paragraph of Spell-Like Abilities entry.
mouther must hit a Medium or smaller foe with a bite
Add the following entry:
attack. It can then attempt to start a grapple as a free
action without provoking an attack of opportunity. Change Shape (Su): Once per hour, a magma mephit
can assume the form of a pool of lava 3 feet in diameter
Swallow Whole (Ex): The gibbering mouther can
and 6 inches deep. The mephit’s damage reduction
attempt to swallow a grappled opponent of Medium or
improves to 20/magic when in this form. The mephit
smaller size by making a successful grapple check. (The
can’t attack while in lava form but can use other spell-
gibbering mouther doesn’t actually “swallow” the
like abilities. It can move at a speed of 10 feet, but it
opponent—it engulfs it within its amorphous form—but
can’t run. In this form the mephit can pass through
the effect is essentially the same.) Once inside, the
small holes or narrow openings, even mere cracks. The
gibbering mouther can use its blood drain ability. A
pool’s touch ignites flammable materials such as paper,
swallowed creature can cut its way out by dealing 5
straw, or dry wood.
points of damage to the gibbering mouther (same AC).
The gibbering mouther’s body can hold 1 Medium, 2
Mind Flayer
Small, 8 Tiny, 32 Diminutive, or 128 Fine creatures.
Monster Manual, page 186–188
Blood Drain (Ex): A swallowed opponent
Add telepathy as a special quality.
automatically takes 1d4 points of Constitution damage
Telepathy (Su): A mind flayer can communicate
each round.
telepathically with any other creature within 100 ft. that
Golem, Iron has a language.
Monster Manual, page 137
Night Hag
Remove polymorph any object from list of spells
Monster Manual, page 194
required for construction.
Remove “polymorph (self only)” from spell-like
Golem, Stone abilities.
Add the following entry:
Monster Manual, page 137
Change Shape (Su): A night hag can assume the form
Problem: Prerequisite spells for constructing a stone
of any Small or Medium humanoid.
golem or greater stone golem given on page 137 of the
Monster Manual don’t match those given for the stone
Ogre, Ogre Mage
golem manual and greater stone golem manual on page
Monster Manual, page 200
258 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide.
Remove polymorph from spell-like abilities.
Solution: The Dungeon Master’s Guide is correct. Add
Change Shape (Su): An ogre mage can assume the
the slow spell to the prerequisites for each of these
form of any Small, Medium, or Large humanoid or
golems in the Monster Manual.
giant.
Guardinal, Leonal
Gelatinous Cube
Monster Manual, page 142
Monster Manual, page 201
Remove “polymorph” from spell-like abilities.
Large Ooze
Hag Covey Hit Dice: 4d10+32 (54 hp)
Monster Manual, page 144 Initiative: –5
Remove “polymorph” from spell-like abilities. Speed: 15 ft. (3 squares)
Armor Class: 4 (–1 size, –5 Dex), touch 4, flat-footed
Lammasu 4
Monster Manual, page 165 Base Attack/Grapple: +3/+7
Delete the paragraph describing a breath weapon. Attack: Slam +2 melee (1d6 plus 1d6 acid)
Full Attack: Slam +2 melee (1d6 plus 1d6 acid)
Lycanthrope
Space/Reach: 10 ft./5 ft.
Monster Manual, page 176 and 178
Special Attacks: Acid, engulf, paralysis
Replace the first sentence of the Alternate Form entry
Special Qualities: Blindsight 60 ft., immunity to
with the following text:
electricity, ooze traits, transparent
A lycanthrope can assume the form of a specific animal
Saves: Fort +9, Ref –4, Will –4
(as indicated in its entry).
Abilities: Str 10, Dex 1, Con 26, Int —, Wis 1, Cha 1
Changing Form: Eliminate sentences 3, 4, and 5 (from
Skills: —
“Changing to animal or hybrid form…” to “…on a DC
Feats: —
15 Fortitude save.”
Environment: Underground
Monster Manual v.3.5 Errata 2/17/06
Page 4
©2006 Wizards of the Coast, Inc., a subsidiary of Hasbro, Inc. All rights reserved.

Organization: Solitary
Favored Weapon
Challenge Rating: 3
Annam (giants): unarmed attack
Treasure: 1/10th coins, 50% goods (no nonmetal or
Blibdoolpoolp (kuo-toa): pincer staff
nonstone), 50% items (no nonmetal or nonstone)
Callarduran Smoothhands (svirfneblin): battleaxe
Alignment: Always neutral
Deep Sashelas (aquatic elves): trident
Advancement: 5–12 HD (Large); 13–24 HD (Huge)
Diirinka (derro): dagger
Level Adjustment: —
Eadro (locathahs, merfolk): shortspear
A typical gelatinous cube is 10 feet on a side and
Grolantor (hill giants, ettins, ogres): club
weighs about 15,000 pounds, though much larger
Hiatea (giants, especially females): shortspear
specimens are not unknown.
Hruggek (bugbears): morningstar
Phasm Iallanis (good giants): unarmed attack
Monster Manual, page 208 Iuz: greatsword
Delete the second sentence of the Alternate Form Kaelthiere (evil fire creatures): spear
special quality. Kurtulmak (kobolds): spear
Laduguer (duergar): warhammer
Sprite, Pixie
Laogzed (troglodytes): javelin
Monster Manual, page 236 Lolth (driders, drow): whip
Remove “polymorph (self only)” from spell-like Maglubiyet (goblins, hobgoblins): battleaxe
abilities. Memnor (evil cloud giants): morningstar
Merrshaulk (yuan-ti): longsword
Swarms
Panzuriel (evil sea creatures): quarterstaff
Monster Manual, pages 237–240
Sekolah (sahuagin): trident
The bat swarm and spider swarm are immune to weapon
Semuanya (lizardfolk): greatclub
damage.
Sixin (xill): short sword
Hellwasp swarm has good maneuverability for its fly
Skerrit (centaurs): shortspear
speed.
Skoraeus Stonebones (stone giants): warhammer
Titan Stronmaus (storm and cloud giants): warhammer
Surtr (fire giants): greatsword
Monster Manual, page 243
Thrym (frost giants): greataxe
Remove “polymorph (humanoid forms only, duration 1
Vaprak (ogres): greatclub
hour)” from spell-like abilities.
Add the following entry:
Change Shape (Su): A titan can assume the form of
any Small or Medium humanoid. The titan retains its
oversized weapon special attack regardless of form.
Vampire
Monster Manual, page 252
Delete the second sentence of the Alternate Form
special quality.
Yuan-Ti
Monster Manual, page 263
Delete the second sentence of the Alternate Form
special quality.
Zombie
Monster Manual, page 266
All zombies have damage reduction 5/slashing. The
template should have the following text under Special
Qualities.
Damage Reduction 5/Slashing: Zombies are lumbering
masses of flesh.
Monstrous Deities
Some creature entries, such as aquatic elves and
kobolds, make reference to deities not found in the
Player’s Handbook.
Monster Manual v.3.5 Errata 2/17/06
Page 5
©2006 Wizards of the Coast, Inc., a subsidiary of Hasbro, Inc. All rights reserved.

Table A–1: Monstrous Deities
Deity Alignment Domains Typical Worshipers
Blibdoolpoolp Chaotic evil Destruction, Evil, Water Kuo-toa
Callarduran Smoothhands Neutral Earth, Good, Healing, Protection Svirfneblin
Deep Sashelas Chaotic good Chaos, Good, Protection, Water Aquatic elves
Diirinka Chaotic evil Chaos, Evil, Magic, Trickery Derro
Eadro Neutral Animal, Protection, Water Locathahs, merfolk
Great Mother Chaotic evil Chaos, Death, Evil, Strength Beholders
Gruumsh Chaotic evil Chaos, Evil, Strength, War Orcs
Hruggek Chaotic evil Chaos, Evil, Trickery, War Bugbears
Kaelthiere Neutral evil Destruction, Evil, Fire, War (spear) Evil fire creatures
Kurtulmak Lawful evil Evil, Law, Luck, Trickery Kobolds
Laduguer Lawful evil Earth, Evil, Law, War Duergar
Laogzed Chaotic evil Chaos, Death, Destruction, Evil Troglodytes
Lolth Chaotic evil Chaos, Destruction, Evil, Trickery Driders, drow (elves)
Maglubiyet Neutral evil Chaos, Destruction, Evil, Trickery Goblins, hobgoblins
Merrshaulk Chaotic evil Chaos, Destruction, Evil, Plant Yuan-ti
Panzuriel Neutral evil Destruction, Evil, War, Water Evil aquatic creatures
Sekolah Lawful evil Evil, Law, Strength, War Sahuagin
Semuanya Neutral Animal, Plant, Water Lizardfolk
Shekinester Neutral Destruction, Knowledge, Magic, Protection Nagas
Sixin Lawful evil Evil, Law, Strength, Travel Xill
Skerrit Neutral good Animal, Healing, Plant, Sun Centaur
Monster Manual v.3.5 Errata 2/17/06
Page 6
©2006 Wizards of the Coast, Inc., a subsidiary of Hasbro, Inc. All rights reserved.

