AREA 4: MAIN BARRACKS (EL 3)
duty here. Each hour, one of them switches places with
The hobgoblins eat, sleep, and relax here. Read or para-
a guard at the nearest entrance. This arrangement helps
phrase the following when the characters enter this area.
keep everyone rested and fairly alert.
DHobgoblin Warriors (2):hp 6 each; see page
Light from two charcoal firepits bathes this long
153 in the Monster Manual.
hall in a feeble, ruddy glow. The air in here smells
Tactics:These hobgoblins are charged with pre-
strongly of smoke, seared meat, and sweaty
venting unauthorized entry to or exit from the outpost. bodies.
These guards overhear most activity at the entrance Low beds with log frames line the area’s north
nearest them, but they ignore anything short of a and south walls. Along the center of the room are a
pitched battle unless it continues for 1d4+1 rounds. If couple of tables and perhaps a dozen stools, also
they hear fighting at the entrance, however, one goes made of logs. Two deeply scarred wooden dum-
to help defend the warrior there, while the second mies, roughly humanoid in shape, stand against
takes 1 round to dash to area 4, raise the alarm, and the short east wall. Someone has added big,
pointed ears made of leather to both dummies,
dash back here. Once that task is completed, the
which makes them look pretty ridiculous.
second guard also joins the fight at the entrance.
At the west end of the north wall is a small,
Noise of combat inside the outpost alerts the guards
dark alcove. One wall section near the middle of
here after 1d4+1 rounds. They do not react immedi-
the south wall appears to be made of fitted stone,
ately because martial noises of various kinds occur fre-
not packed earth, like the walls in the rest of this
quently in the outpost. Off-duty hobgoblins hold spar- complex. Set in the center of that wall section is a
ring matches, gladiatorial fights between slaves and sturdy wooden door
prisoners from areas 10 and 11 are staged from time to 3

Six beds stand along the north wall, and nine along the Nine are standing guard in areas 1 and 2, and another
south. (Some of the hobgoblins are obliged to share eight are out on patrols or raids at any given time.
bunks with their comrades.) The beds are very low, and Three goblin slaves are here at all times here as well,
their mattresses are made from canvas ticks stuffed with doing domestic chores for their hobgoblin masters.
leaves. Each bed has a few personal items (see the Trea- DHobgoblin Warriors (6):hp 6 each; see page
sure section, below) stored near it or under it. Also under 153 in the Monster Manual.
each bed are a covered bucket for slops, a clay pitcher of DGoblin Slaves (3):CR 1/3; Small humanoid
water, and one or two sets of battered eating utensils. (goblinoid); HD 1d8; hp 4; Init +1; Spd 30 ft.; AC 12,
The hobgoblins use the firepits for cooking, and touch 12, flat-footed 11; Base Atk +0; Grp –5; Atk +0
they usually keep the fires burning around the clock. melee (1d2–1, unarmed strike); Full Atk +0 melee
The ceiling has a couple of small vents that let out the (1d2–1, unarmed strike); SQ darkvision 60 ft.; AL NE;
worst of the smoke, which is so dispersed by the time it SV Fort +0, Ref +3, Will +0; Str 8, Dex 13, Con 10, Int
reaches the surface that it’s unnoticeable. The system 10, Wis 11, Cha 9.
isn’t very efficient, but the hobgoblins are accustomed Skills and Feats:Craft (woodworking) +1, Hide +7,
to the smoke. A small collection of cooking utensils is Listen +2, Move Silently +7, Ride +5, Spot +2, Use
stacked near each pit. Rope +2.
The two wooden dummies serve as targets for Tactics: Three of the six hobgoblins in this cham-
weapon practice. The leather ears have been added to ber are awake, and the other three are asleep. They
make the figures look more like elves. sleep in their armor and keep their weapons handy—
See areas 4A and 4B for details on the dark alcove either hanging from their bedframes or stashed under
and the stone wall section. their beds. The sleepers tend to snooze through any
Creatures:This chamber is home to twenty-three disturbance except other hobgoblins shouting for help.
4
hobgoblin warriors, but only six are ever here at once. It takes the sleepers a full-round action to wake up and

get out of bed, and a move action to pick up their weap- in the ceiling. A few barrels of hardtack, a crate of dried
ons. Once armed, the sleepers tend to use the tactics fruit, and several casks of ale and wine round out the
described below. food stores.
The three hobgoblins that are awake lose no time
Area 4b: Well
responding to an intruder in this area. They form a
This area features a stone-lined shaft about 100 feet
battle line, and one of them orders one slave to area 6,
deep. Very cold water fills the shaft to a height of 30
one to area 7, and the third to area 8 (a free action).
feet. A big wooden bucket is attached to a ring on the
Then the warriors hurl javelins at whichever targets
west wall with an 80-foot rope. The slaves use this
they think they have they best chance of hitting. They
assembly to draw water from the well.
choose foes without cover over foes with cover, and
unarmored targets over armored ones. Against foes
