AREA 8: SERGEANT’S CHAMBER (EL 5)
If fighting alone, Vuroosk tries to stay out of melee
Vuroosk, the sergeant in charge of the outpost, lives
range as long as he can. If he can’t avoid melee, he tries
here. His chamber is similar to area 7, except that it has
to stand in a doorway or corner, where be can’t be
no water clock or niche with skulls and holy symbol.
flanked.
A neatly kept ledger on the writing desk details cap-
Treasure: Vuroosk keeps a locked strongbox
tives and loot the hobgoblins have taken. The ser-
under his bed. He has the only key.
geant’s notes are nearly identical to those kept by the sIronbound Strongbox:2 in. thick; hardness
adept in area 7, but easier to read. Vuroosk also keeps a
5; hp 35; Break DC 27; Open Lock DC 25.
roster of the outpost’s warriors, a pay ledger, and
Inside the box are a leather bag containing 350 gp, a
records of supplies both used and needed. A packet of
leather pouch containing 28 pp, an unlocked wooden
reports detailing the exploits of Vuroosk’s troops (all
box that holds three strings of pearls (worth 500 gp
addressed to the local hobgoblin chieftain, named
each), eight packets of rare spices (worth 25 gp each),
Nygraag) lies at the bottom of the stack. All the records
and a cloak of elvenkind. The gold coins represent
here are written in Goblin.
Vuroosk’s pay chest; the other items are treasure that
Creatures: Vuroosk spends most of his time
the hobgoblins wrested from their victims.
laying plans for future raids. He accepts suggestions
Development:When foes try to enter the out-
from the adept and from his troops, incorporating the 7
post, word of the assault eventually reaches Vuroosk.

The sergeant tries to make a stand in area 4, where there the outpost quite well, but if the PCs have already
is space to bring the apes from area 6 into play. He sends defeated the hobgoblins, such information does them
a few warriors off to delay the attackers but holds back little good. The goblins know nothing about the hob-
at least half of his troops for the main battle in area 4. goblins’ plans for the surrounding area. They do know
When fighting in area 4, Vuroosk tries to draw the that the two chief hobgoblins, Vuroosk and Hoortchuc,
foe to the east end of the chamber, so that any rein- answer to some “hobgoblin bigwig” in the area, but
forcements arriving from areas 1 and 2 can come up they don’t know who. They’ve never heard of Nygraag
behind the foe. (see the area 8 entry), and they have no idea where such
a person might be found.
AREA 9: FANE OF MAGLUBIYET The goblins are much less helpful if they believe the
In the center of this chamber is a large firepit (usually PCs have not defeated the hobgoblins in the outpost.
cold). South of the firepit stand two rows of benches They pretend to be utterly cowed, and they usually
made of split logs, and north of it lies a big chopping reply to questions by cringing and whining.
block with a great, black, double-bitted axe embedded in In any case, the goblins bide their time and try to
it. Both axe and block are well spattered with bloodstains. escape from the PCs (and the hobgoblins) at the first
The block is just a piece of bloodstained wood with opportunity.
hollows and channels cut in it to facilitate beheadings.
The axe is a masterwork greataxe with a head made of AREA 11: PRISON
blackened steel and a handle made of dark wood,
This long, narrow chamber features two rows of cov-
stained black.
ered pits that the hobgoblins use as prison cells. Each
pit is 20 feet deep, and its walls are similar to those at
