AREA 5: SMITHY
within melee reach, the warriors try to maneuver into
This alcove contains a crude forge built out of rocks
flanking positions if they can. Their general strategy is
collected from the surface. A pile of charcoal, a big, flat
to eliminate weaker foes first. If they have difficulty
stone that serves as an anvil, and two stone troughs full
hurting a foe, they either switch to easier targets or use
of dirty water give mute testimony to its purpose.
the aid another action to improve their attack bonuses.
Hooks on the walls hold a couple of bellows, plus some
The slaves obey their orders with alacrity because
hammers and a few sets of tongs.
they know the price of disobedience only too well. See
A barrel next to the forge holds miscellaneous bits
the Development sections of areas 6, 7, and 8 for details.
of steel and iron—mostly old horseshoes, nails, and
Development:The hobgoblins here react quickly
pieces of chain, but also arrowheads, notched axe
if one of their comrades brings a warning. They imme-
blades, bent daggers, broken swords, and smashed hel-
diately wake their companions and send their slaves off
mets. A successful Search check (DC 15) through all
to areas 6,7, and 8, as described in the Tactics section.
this junk reveals a tarnished silver holy symbol of Pelor
As soon as all six hobgoblins are ready, they march off
(taken from a cleric’s shield) with some of its rays bent
to the scene of the action, unless they receive orders to
or broken off. The symbol is worth 10 gp as is, or 25 gp
the contrary (see the Development section of area 8).
if cleaned up and repaired.
Fighting in area 1 or 2 draws the attention of the
The hobgoblin adept from area 7 occasionally plies
hobgoblins here after 1d3 rounds. Once they notice
his metalworking craft here, but only when the hob-
something amiss, they react as noted above.
goblins are sure no enemies are nearby to see the
Any fighting in this area eventually draws guards
smoke from the forge. An airshaft about 6 inches wide
from areas 1 and 2, as noted in the Development sec-
leads from above the forge directly to the surface.
tions for those areas. It also brings the sergeant from
area 8 and the adept from area 7, along with a pair of
