BASILISK
retains its bite attack.
Pass Without Trace (Ex):A barghest in wolf form can use pass The creature looks like a thick-bodied reptile with eight legs. Rows of
without trace (as the spell) as a free action. bony spines jut from its back, and its eyes glow with an eerie, pale green
Skills:*A barghest in wolf form gains a +4 circumstance bonus incandescence.
on Hide checks.
A basilisk is a reptilian monster that petrifies living creatures with
GREATER BARGHEST a mere gaze. Surviving a fight with a basilisk requires either care-
A barghest that reaches 9 Hit Dice through feeding becomes a ful preparation or considerable good fortune.
greater barghest. These creatures can change shape into a gob- Basilisks are found in nearly every climate, and often in
linlike creature of Large size (about 8 feet tall and 400 pounds) underground areas as well. They tend to lair in shallow burrows,
or a dire wolf. In goblin form, a greater barghest cannot use its caves, or other sheltered areas. The entrance to a basilisk lair is
natural weapons but can wield weapons and wear armor. In dire sometimes distinguished by lifelike stone statues or carvings,
wolf form, a greater barghest loses its claw attacks but retains which are actually creatures that ran afoul of the crea-
its bite attack. ture’s gaze. Basilisks are omnivorous and able to
A greater barghest can reach a maximum of 18 Hit Dice consume their petrified victims. They
through feeding. make effective guardians, if one
Spell-Like Abilities:In addition to the spell- has the magical or monetary
like abilities all barghests possess, a greater
barghest gains the following abilities. At
will—invisibility sphere;1/day—mass bull’s
strength, mass enlarge. Caster level
equals the greater barghest’s HD.
Combat
Occasionally, a greater barghest uses a
magic two-handed weapon in combat
instead of its claws, giving it multi-
ple attacks (attack bonus +13/+8). It
can also make one bite attack (attack bonus 23
+8) each round. The save DC against a greater
barghest’s spell-like abilities is 14 + spell level. Basilisk

Basilisk Abyssal Greater Basilisk
Medium Magical Beast Large Outsider (Augmented Magical Beast, Extraplanar)
Hit Dice: 6d10+12 (45 hp) 18d10+90 (189 hp)
Initiative: –1 –1
Speed: 20 ft. (4 squares) 20 ft. (4 squares)
Armor Class: 16 (–1 Dex, +7 natural), 17 (–1 Dex, –1 size, +9 natural)
touch 9, flat-footed 16 touch 8, flat-footed 17
Base Attack/Grapple: +6/+8 +18/+29
Attack: Bite +8 melee (1d8+3) Bite +25 melee (2d8+10)
Full Attack: Bite +8 melee (1d8+3) Bite +25 melee (2d8+10)
Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft. 10 ft./5 ft.
Special Attacks: Petrifying gaze Petrifying gaze, smite good
KSILISAB Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision Resistance to cold 10 and fire 10, damage reduction 10/magic,
darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision, spell resistance 23
Saves: Fort +9, Ref +4, Will +3 Fort +18, Ref +12, Will +8
Abilities: Str 15, Dex 8, Con 15, Str 24, Dex 8, Con 21,
Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 11 Int 3, Wis 10, Cha 15
Skills: Hide +0*, Listen +7, Spot +7 Hide +0*, Listen +10, Spot +10
Feats: Alertness, Blind-Fight, Alertness, Blind-Fight, Great Fortitude,
Great Fortitude Iron Will, Improved Natural Attack (bite),
Lightning Reflexes, Weapon Focus (bite)
Environment: Warm deserts Infinite Layers of the Abyss
Organization: Solitary or colony (3–6) Solitary or colony (3–6)
Challenge Rating: 5 12
Treasure: None Standard
Alignment: Always neutral Always chaotic evil
Advancement: 7–10 HD (Medium); 11–18 HD (Large) —
Level Adjustment: — —
resources to capture and contain them. Petrifying Gaze (Su):Turn to stone permanently, range 30 feet;
A basilisk usually has a dull brown body with a yellowish under- Fortitude DC 13 negates. The save DC is Charisma-based.
belly. Some specimens sport a Skills:*The basilisk’s dull coloration and its ability to remain
short, curved horn motionless for long periods
atop the nose. An adult of time grant it a +4 racial
basilisk’s body grows to bonus on Hide checks in
about 6 feet long, not natural settings.
including its tail, which Abyssal greater basilisk
can reach an additional ABYSSAL
length of 5 to 7 feet. GREATER
The creature weighs BASILISK
about 300 pounds. Adventurers are likely to
encounter these fiends of
COMBAT the underworld either in
A basilisk relies on its their native environment,
gaze attack, biting only barren wastelands of the
when opponents come Abyss, or summoned to the
within reach. Though employ of some dark sor-
it has eight legs, its cerer. Servants of the de-
slow metabolism ren- mon lords make good use
ders it relatively slug- of the greater basilisk as
gish, so it does not guards and escorts.
expend energy unnec-
essarily. Intruders who Combat
flee a basilisk rather The save DC for the
than fight can expect, abyssal greater basilisk’s
at best, a halfhearted petrifying gaze (DC 21)
pursuit. is adjusted for its greater
These creatures tend Hit Dice and higher
to spend most of their time Charisma score.
lying in wait for prey, An abyssal greater basi-
which includes small lisk’s natural weapons are
mammals, birds, reptiles, treated as magic weapons
and similar creatures. for the purpose of overcoming
When not hunting, basilisks are usually sleeping off their latest damage reduction.
24 meal in their lairs. Basilisks sometimes gather in small colonies for Smite Good (Su):Once per day an abyssal greater basilisk can
mating or for mutual defense in unusually hostile terrain, and a make a normal melee attack to deal an extra 18 points of damage
colony will attack intruders in concert. against a good foe.

