BEHOLDER
snake fashion if it desires. The coloration of behirs ranges from T.
Lockwood
ultramarine to deep blue with bands of gray-brown. The belly is It floats before you, a bulbous body with a central, unblinking eye, and a
pale blue. The two large horns curving back over the head look large maw filled with daggerlike teeth. Smaller eyes, attached to wriggling
dangerous but are actually used for preening the creature’s scales, stalks, sprout from the top of the orblike body.
not for fighting.
Behirs are never friendly with dragonkind and won’t coexist Beholders are the stuff of nightmares. These creatures, also called
with any type of dragon. If a dragon enters a behir’s territory, the the “spheres of many eyes” or “eye tyrants,” are deadly adversaries.
behir does everything it can to drive the dragon out. If the behir Beholders speak their own language and Common.
fails, it moves off to find a new home. A behir never knowingly
enters the territory of a dragon. COMBAT
Behirs speak Common. The primary weapon of both the gauth and the beholder is a series
of deadly eye rays.
Eye Rays (Su):Each of a beholder’s small eyes can produce
a magical ray once per round as a free action. During a single
Behir round, a creature can aim only two eye rays (gauth) or three eye
rays (beholder) at targets in any one 90-degree arc (up, forward,
backward, left, right, or down). The remaining eyes must aim at
targets in other arcs, or not at all. A beholder can tilt and pan its
body each round to change which rays it can bring to bear in any
given arc.
Each eye’s effect resembles a spell (caster level 8th level for a
gauth, or 14th for a beholder), but follows the rules for a ray (see
Aiming a Spell, page 175 of the Player’s Handbook).
All-Around Vision (Ex):Beholders are exceptionally alert and
circumspect. Their many eyes give them a +4 racial bonus on Spot
and Search checks, and they can’t be flanked.
Flight (Ex):A beholder’s body is naturally buoyant. This
buoyancy allows it to fly at a speed of 20 feet. This buoyancy also
grants it a permanent feather fall effect (as the spell) with per- 25
sonal range.

GAUTH is subject to its stunning gaze attack. Since the gauth can use its
Medium Aberration eye-rays as a free action, the creature can use a standard action to
Hit Dice: 6d8+18 (45 hp) focus its stunning gaze on an opponent and attack with all eye rays
Initiative: +6 that bear on its foes at the same time.
Speed: 5 ft. (1 square), fly 20 ft. (good)
Armor Class: 19 (+2 Dex, +7 natural), touch 12, flat-footed 17 BEHOLDER
Base Attack/Grapple: +4/+3 Large Aberration
Attack: Eye rays +6 ranged touch and bite –2 melee (1d6–1) Hit Dice: 11d8+44 (93 hp)
Full Attack: Eye rays +6 ranged touch and bite –2 melee (1d6–1) Initiative: +6
Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft. Speed: 5 ft. (1 square), fly 20 ft. (good)
Special Attacks: Eye rays, stunning gaze Armor Class: 26 (–1 size, +2 Dex, +15 natural), touch 11,
Special Qualities: All-around vision, darkvision 60 ft., flight flat-footed 24
