BELKER
affected as though by the spell. The beholder likes to use this ray
on any foe it considers a real threat. Large Elemental (Air, Extraplanar)
Fear: This works like the spell, except that it targets one creature. Hit Dice: 7d8+7 (38 hp)
The target must succeed on a Will save or be affected as though by Initiative: +5
the spell. Beholders like to use this ray against warriors and other Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares), fly 50 ft. (perfect)
powerful creatures early in a fight, to break up the opposition. Armor Class: 22 (–1 size, +5 Dex, +8 natural), touch 14,
Finger of Death: The target must succeed on a Fortitude save or be flat-footed 17
slain as though by the spell. The target takes 3d6+13 points of dam- Base Attack/Grapple: +5/+11
age if its saving throw succeeds. Beholders use this ray to elimi- Attack: Wing +9 melee (1d6+2) BELKER
nate dangerous foes quickly. Full Attack: 2 wings +9 melee (1d6+2) and bite +4 melee (1d4+1)
Flesh to Stone: The target must succeed on a Fortitude save or be and 2 claws +4 melee (1d3+1)
affected as though by the spell. Beholders like to aim this ray at Space/Reach: 10 ft./10 ft.
enemy spellcasters. They also use it on any creature whose appear- Special Attacks: Smoke claws
ance they find interesting. (After the fight, the beholder takes the Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., elemental traits, smoke
statue to its lair as a decoration.) form
Inflict Moderate Wounds: This works like the spell, causing Saves: Fort +3, Ref +10, Will +2
2d8+10 points of damage (Will half ). Abilities: Str 14, Dex 21, Con 13, Int 6, Wis 11, Cha 11
Sleep: This works like the spell, except that it affects one creature Skills: Listen +7, Move Silently +9, Spot +7
with any number of Hit Dice (Will negates). Beholders like to use Feats: Alertness, Multiattack, Weapon Finesse
this ray against warriors and other physically powerful creatures. Environment: Elemental Plane of Air
They know their foes can quickly awaken the sleepers, but they Organization: Solitary, pair, or clutch (3–4)
also know that doing so takes time and can delay an effective Challenge Rating: 6
counterattack. Treasure: None
Slow: This works like the spell, except that it affects one crea- Alignment: Usually neutral evil
ture. The target can make a Will save to negate the effect. Behold- Advancement: 8–10 HD (Large); 11–21 HD (Huge)
ers often use this ray against the same creature targeted by their Level Adjustment: —
disintegrate, flesh to stone, or finger of death ray. If one
of the former rays fails to eliminate the foe, this A mass of dark smoke moves against the breeze, shifting shape as
ray might at least hamper it. Belker it comes closer. Cloudlike, roiling, it suddenly explodes into a
Telekinesis: A beholder can move objects demonic creature of smoke and wind, with large bat wings,
or creatures that weigh up to 325 pounds, clawed tendrils, and a biting maw.
as though with a telekinesis spell. Crea-
tures can resist the effect with a success- Belkers are creatures from the Plane of Air. They
ful Will save. are composed primarily of smoke. Although
Antimagic Cone (Su): A beholder’s undeniably evil, they are very reclusive and
central eye continually produces a 150- usually have no interest in the affairs of others.
foot cone of antimagic. This functions A belker’s winged shape makes it look dis-
just like antimagic field (caster level tinctly demonic. Because of its semigaseous
13th). All magical and supernatural nature, however, it shifts and changes shape
powers and effects within the cone are with every puff of wind. It is about 7 feet long
suppressed—even the beholder’s own and weighs about 8 pounds.
eye rays. Once each round, during its Belkers speak Auran.
turn, the beholder decides whether the
antimagic cone is active or not (the COMBAT
beholder deactivates the cone by shutting its In most cases, a belker fights with its nasty claws
central eye). and painful bite.
Smoke Claws (Ex): A belker in smoke form (see
Beholder Society below) can engulf opponents by moving on top of them. It fills
Beholders are hateful, aggressive, and avari- the air around one Medium or smaller opponent without pro-
cious, attacking or dominating others when- voking an attack of opportunity. The target must
ever they can get away with it. They exhibit succeed on a DC 14 Fortitude save or inhale part of
a xenophobic intolerance, hating all creatures the creature. The save DC is Constitution-based.
not like themselves. The basic body type comprises a great variety Smoke inside the victim solidifies into a claw and begins to rip at
of beholder subspecies. Some are covered with overlapping chiti- the surrounding organs, dealing 3d4 points of damage per round.
nous plates; some have smooth hides or snakelike eye tentacles; An affected creature can attempt another Fortitude save each sub-
some have crustacean joints. But even a difference as small as hide sequent round to cough out the semivaporous menace.
color or size of the central eye can make two groups of beholders Smoke Form (Su): Most of the time a belker is more or less
sworn enemies. Every beholder declares its own unique form to solid, but at will it can assume smoke form. It can switch forms
be the “true ideal of beholderhood,” the others being nothing but once per round as a free action and can spend up to 20 rounds per
ugly replicas fit only to be eliminated. day in smoke form. A belker in smoke form can fly at a speed of 50
Beholders usually carve out underground lairs for themselves feet (perfect). The ability is otherwise similar to a gaseous form spell 27
using their disintegrate rays. Beholder architecture emphasizes the (caster level 7th).
vertical, and a lair usually has a number of parallel tubes, with Skills: Belkers have a +4 racial bonus on Move Silently checks.

