C.
Initiative: +0 Base Attack/Grapple: +5/+12 Crichlow
Speed: 20 ft. (4 squares) Attack: Bite +7 melee (1d6+4 plus poison)
Armor Class: 14 (+4 natural), touch Full Attack: Bite +7 melee (1d6+4 plus
10, flat-footed 14 poison)
Base Attack/Grapple: +1/+3 Space/Reach: 10 ft./5 ft.
Attack: Bite +3 melee (1d6+3) Special Attacks: Poison
Full Attack: Bite +3 melee (1d6+3) Special Qualitiy: Darkvision 60 ft., ethe-
Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft. real jaunt, low-light vision
Special Attacks: — Saves: Fort +7, Ref +7, Will +2
Special Qualities: Low-light vision, plant Abilities: Str 17, Dex 17, Con 16, Int 7,
traits, greater invisibility Wis 13, Cha 10
Saves: Fort +6, Ref +0, Will +0 Skills: Climb +11, Move Silently +11,
Abilities: Str 14, Dex 10, Con 16, Int 2, Spot +4
Wis 11, Cha 9 Feats: Ability Focus (poison),
Skills: Listen +4, Move Silently +6, Improved Initiative
Spot +4 Environment: Warm hills
Feats: Alertness Organization:Solitary
Environment: Underground or cluster (2–5)
Organization:Solitary Challenge Rating:
Challenge Rating: 3 5
Treasure: None Treasure: None
Alignment: Always neutral Alignment: Always
Advancement: 3–4 HD neutral
(Medium); 5–6 HD (Large) Advancement: 6–8 HD
Level Adjustment: — (Large); 9–15 HD (Huge)
Level Adjustment: —
Soft, squelching footfalls and a strange, moldy odor
indicate that some creature is nearby—but nothing can be 207
seen. Phantom fungus

This creature resembles a giant wolf spider, except with a larger head and This creature looks like a slithering blob of multicolored goo perhaps 5 feet
variegated markings in white, gray, and blue over the legs and back. Its wide and a little less than half that high.
eight eyes are silver-white.
A phasm is an amorphous creature that can assume the guise of
Phase spiders are aggressive predators that can move quickly from almost any other creature or object.
the Ethereal Plane to attack opponents on the Material Plane. Its shapeshifting ability frees a phasm from most material
A typical phase spider’s body is 8 feet long. It weighs about 700 needs, which usually leads it to a life of exploration, hedonism, or
pounds. philosophical contemplation. There’s no telling where
Phase spiders cannot speak. a phasm will turn up, nor what it will do if discov-
ered. They are natural spies but notori-
COMBAT ously unreliable, since they feel no
Phase spiders dwell and hunt on particular need to report
the Material Plane. Once a spi- what they learn. They
MSAHPniapseD
der locates prey, however, it have an affinity for
shifts to the Ethereal Plane to doppelgangers
attack, attempting to catch its and sometimes
victim flat-footed. The spider ally themselves
shifts in, bites its victim, with groups of
and retreats quickly back them for secu-
to the Ethereal Plane. rity—or just
Ethereal Jaunt for the fun
(Su): A phase spi- of it.
der can shift
from the Ethe- Phase spider
real Plane
to the
Material Plane as a free action,
and shift back again as a move
action (or during a move action). The ability is otherwise A phasm in its natural form is about 5 feet in diameter and 2 feet
identical with ethereal jaunt (caster level 15th). high at the center. Swirls of color indicate sensory organs. In this
Poison (Ex): Injury, Fortitude DC 17, initial and secondary form, a phasm slithers about like an ooze and can attack with a
damage 1d8 Con. The save DC is Constitution-based. pseudopod. It weighs about 400 pounds.
Skills: A phase spider has a +8 racial bonus on Climb checks Phasms can speak Common but prefer telepathic communica-
.B and can always choose to take 10 on a Climb check, even if rushed tion.
yb
or threatened.
.sulli
