CHALLENGE RATING
modifiers for size and natural armor at this time. Check for
Improved Initiative and any other feat that affects Initiative and When you add higher ability scores, class levels, more Hit Dice, or
apply the change now. a template to a monster, you make it a more challenging opponent
Check to see if either the base creature or the templated crea- for your players.
ture uses Weapon Finesse with one or more of its attacks. If it does, When adding class levels to a creature with 1 or less HD, you
use the new Dexterity modifier to recalculate the attack bonus. advance the creature like a character. Otherwise, use the following
Apply any size modifiers at the same time. guidelines.
The new Dexterity modifier also modifies the Reflex saving
throw modifier and the modifiers of any skills with Dexterity as ADDING CLASS LEVELS
the key ability. Check for Lightning Reflexes or any other feat that If you are advancing a monster by adding player character class 293
affects the Reflex saving throw modifier and apply the change now. levels, decide if the class levels directly improve the monster’s
When you know the new Strength modifier, check to see if existing capabilities.

Table 4–4: Improved Monster CR Increase
When adding class levels to a creature, you should give it typi-
cal ability scores appropriate for that class. Most creatures in this Creature’s Original Type CR Increase
book are built using the standard array of ability scores: 11, 11, 11, Aberration, construct, elemental, fey, giant,
10, 10, 10, adjusted by racial modifiers. If you give a creature a PC humanoid, ooze, plant, undead, vermin +1 per 4 HD added
class, such as fighter or druid, use the elite array of ability scores Animal, magical beast, monstrous humanoid +1 per 3 HD added
before racial adjustments: 15, 14, 13, 12, 10, 8. For example, the Dragon, outsider, nonassociated class levels +1 per 2 HD or
troll hunter (in the Troll entry) is a ranger and uses the elite array, 2 levels added
which is then modified by the troll’s racial adjustments (Str +12, Directly associated class levels +1 per level added
Dex +4, Con +12, Int –4, Wis –2, Cha –4). Creatures with NPC Other Modifiers:
classes, such as adept or warrior, use the nonelite array of 13, 12, Size increased to Large or larger +1 to CR
11, 10, 9, 8. The orc warrior presented in this book is an example. Monster’s ability scores based on elite array* +1 to CR
:4 GNICNAVDA Estimating CR: Assigning a Challenge Rating is a subjective Monster possesses special attacks or qualities
