CHAOS BEAST
a living creature can cause a terrible transformation. The creature
Medium Outsider (Chaotic, Extraplanar) must succeed on a DC 15 Fortitude save or become a spongy,
Hit Dice: 8d8+8 (44 hp) amorphous mass. Unless the victim manages to control the effect
Initiative: +5 (see below), its shape melts, flows, writhes, and boils. The save DC
Speed: 20 ft. (4 squares) is Constitution-based.
Armor Class: 16 (+1 Dex, +5 natural), touch 11, flat-footed 15 An affected creature is unable to hold or use any item. Clothing,
Base Attack/Grapple: +8/+10 armor, rings, and helmets become useless. Large items worn or
Attack: Claw +10 melee (1d3+2 plus corporeal instability) carried—armor, backpacks, even shirts—hamper more than help,
Full Attack: 2 claws +10 melee (1d3+2 plus corporeal instability) reducing the victim’s Dexterity score by 4. Soft or misshapen feet
Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft. and legs reduce speed to 10 feet or one-quarter normal, whichever
Special Attacks: Corporeal instability is less. Searing pain courses along the nerves, so strong that the
Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., immunity to critical hits victim cannot act coherently. The victim cannot cast spells or use
and transformation, spell resistance 15 magic items, and it attacks blindly, unable to distinguish friend
Saves: Fort +7, Ref +7, Will +6 from foe (–4 penalty on attack rolls and a 50% miss chance, regard-
Abilities: Str 14, Dex 13, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 10, Cha 10 less of the attack roll).
Skills: Climb +13, Escape Artist +12, Hide +12, Jump +9, Listen Each round the victim spends in an amorphous state causes 1
+11, Search +11, Spot +11, Survival +0 (+2 following tracks), point of Wisdom drain from mental shock. If the victim’s
Tumble +14, Use Rope +1 (+3 with bindings) Wisdom score falls to 0, it becomes a chaos beast.
Feats: Dodge, Improved Initiative, Mobility A victim can regain its own shape by taking
Environment: Ever-Changing Chaos of Limbo a standard action to attempt a DC 15
Organization: Solitary Charisma check (this check DC
Challenge Rating: 7 does not vary for a chaos beast
Treasure: None with different Hit Dice or abil-
Alignment: Always chaotic neutral ity scores). A success reestab-
Advancement: 9–12 HD lishes the creature’s normal
(Medium); 13–24 HD (Large) form for 1 minute. On a fail-
Level Adjustment: — ure, the victim can still
repeat this check each
Foul and terrible, the creature round until successful.
before you has no set form. It con- Corporeal instability is
stantly melts and reforms, appar- not a disease or a curse
ently drawing each shape from and so is hard to remove.
every nightmare that has ever A shapechange or stoneskin
plagued humankind. It chaoti- spell does not cure an
cally shifts through a dozen afflicted creature but fixes
monstrous forms before shap- its form for the duration
ing itself into a bulbous thing of the spell. A restora-
with ten eyes swimming in a tion, heal, or greater
viscous sac at the top of a body restoration spell re-
that’s surrounded by a ring moves the affliction (a sepa-
of smacking mouths. rate restoration is necessary to
restore any drained points of
The horrific creatures known as Wisdom).
chaos beasts have mutable, ever-chang- Immunity to Transfor-
ing forms. Their deadly touch can mation (Ex): No mortal
make opponents melt into formless magic can permanently
goo. affect or fix a chaos beast’s
There’s no telling what a chaos beast will look like. One Chaos beast form. Effects such as polymorphing or petrifica-
moment it might be a towering horror of hooks and fangs, all tion force the creature into a new shape, but at 33
pulpy flesh and exposed veins, and the next a slithering mass of the start of its next turn it immediately returns to its mutable form
ropy, vermilion-tipped tentacles. Then it become a mighty crea- as a free action.

Regardless of its type, a chimera’s breath weapon is usable once
