CHARACTERS
corpse, its rib cage filled with horrid, writhing viscera.
Minotaur characters possess the following The creature’s tongue is its most noteworthy
racial traits. feature—long, cartilaginous, and clawed.
— +8 Strength, +4 Constitution, –4 Intelli-
gence (minimum 3), –2 Charisma. Mohrgs are the animated corpses of mass mur-
—Large size. –1 penalty to Armor Class, –1 derers or similar villains who died without
penalty on attack rolls, –4 penalty on Hide atoning for their crimes. Tortured by an all-
checks, +4 bonus on grapple checks, lifting consuming hatred of living things, they
and carrying limits double those of long to live again. 189
Medium characters. Most mohrgs are 5 to 6 feet tall and
—Space/Reach: 10 feet/10 feet. weigh about 120 pounds.
Mohrg

COMBAT used to create a mummy give off a sharp, pungent odor like that of
Like zombies, mohrgs attack by slamming enemies with their a spice cabinet.
fists. They often catch opponents flat-footed, for they move much Mummies attack intruders without pause or mercy. They never
faster than zombies. attempt to communicate with their enemies and never retreat. An
Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, a mohrg must hit a encounter with a mummy can end only with the destruction of
creature of its size or smaller with its slam attack. It can then one combatant or the other (unless the mummy’s foe elects to
attempt to start a grapple as a free action without provoking an retreat).
attack of opportunity. Most mummies are 5 to 6 feet tall and weigh about 120 pounds.
Paralyzing Touch (Su): A mohrg lashes out with its Mummies can speak Common, but seldom bother to do so.
tongue in combat. An opponent the tongue touches
must succeed on a DC 17 Fortitude save or become par- COMBAT
alyzed for 1d4 minutes. The save DC is Charisma- In melee combat, a mummy delivers a
YMMUM based. powerful blow. Even if it had no other
Create Spawn (Su): Creatures killed by a mohrg abilities, its great strength and grim deter-
rise after 1d4 days as zombies under the morhg’s mination would make it a formidable
control. They do not possess any of the abilities opponent.
they had in life. Despair (Su): At the mere sight
of a mummy, the viewer must
succeed on a DC 16 Will save or
