CHUUL
thralls of beholders or mind flayers. by
Large Aberration (Aquatic) A chuul is about 8 feet long and weighs 650 pounds. D.
Knutson
Hit Dice: 11d8+44 (93 hp) Chuuls speak Common (or Undercommon, for the under-
Initiative: +7 ground variety).
Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares), swim 20 ft.
Armor Class: 22 (–1 size, +3 Dex, +10 natural), touch 12, COMBAT
flat-footed 19 A chuul prefers to wait by the shore, submerged in murky water,
Base Attack/Grapple: +8/+17 until it hears nearby prey (in or out of the water) that it can attack
Attack: Claw +12 melee (2d6+5) with surprise.
Full Attack: 2 claws +12 melee (2d6+5) A chuul grabs with its claws and constricts its foe, then passes
Space/Reach: 10 ft./5 ft. the opponent to its paralytic tentacles. It tries to
Special Attacks: Constrict 3d6+5, improved grab, paralytic always have one claw free, so if it faces a large
tentacles number of opponents, it drops a paralyzed or
Special Qualities: Amphibious, darkvision 60 ft., dead victim and continues attempting to
immunity to poison grab, constrict, and paralyze the rest.
Saves: Fort +7, Ref +6, Will +9 Constrict (Ex): On a successful grapple
Abilities: Str 20, Dex 16, Con 18, Int 10, Wis 14, check, a chuul deals 3d6+5 points of
Cha 5 damage.
Skills: Hide +13, Listen +11, Spot Improved Grab (Ex): To use this
+11, Swim +13 ability, a chuul must hit with a
Feats: Alertness, Blind-Fight, claw attack. It can then attempt
Combat Reflexes, to start a grapple as a free
Improved Initiative action without provok-
Environment: Temperate ing an attack of opportu-
marshes nity. If it wins the grap-
Organization: Solitary, ple check, it establishes a
pair, or pack (3–5) hold and can constrict or
Challenge Rating: 7 on its next turn transfer a
Treasure: 1/10th coins; 50% grabbed opponent to its
goods; standard items tentacles.
Alignment: Usually chaotic evil Paralytic Tentacles (Ex): 35
Advancement: 12–16 HD (Large); 17–33 HD (Huge) Chuul A chuul can transfer grabbed
Level Adjustment: — victims from a claw to its ten-

tacles as a move action. The tentacles grapple with the same A cloaker has a wingspan of about 8 feet. It weighs about 100
strength as the claw but deal no damage. However, they exude a pounds.
paralytic secretion. Anyone held in the tentacles must succeed on a Cloakers speak Undercommon.
DC 19 Fortitude save each round on the chuul’s turn or be para-
lyzed for 6 rounds. The save DC is Constitution-based. While held COMBAT
in the tentacles, paralyzed or not, a victim automatically takes Cloakers usually lie still, watching and listening for prey. If
1d8+2 points of damage each round from the creature’s mandibles. facing a single opponent, a cloaker uses its engulf attack.
Amphibious (Ex): Although chuuls are aquatic, they can sur- Against multiple foes, it lashes with its tail in concert with its
vive indefinitely on land. moan and shadow shift abilities to reduce the opposition’s num-
Skills: A chuul has a +8 racial bonus on any Swim check to per- bers, then engulfs a survivor. Multiple cloakers usually split up,
form some special action or avoid a hazard. It can always choose to leaving one or two behind to use special abilities while the rest
take 10 on a Swim check, even if distracted or endangered. It can use make melee attacks.
REKAOLCdoowkcoL the run action while swimming, provided it swims in a straight line. Moan (Ex): A cloaker can emit a dangerous subsonic moan as a
standard action. By changing the frequency, the cloaker can cause
one of four effects. Cloakers are immune to these sonic, mind-
