CLOAKER
affecting attacks. Unless otherwise specified, a creature that suc-
Large Aberration cessfully saves against one of these effects cannot be affected by
Hit Dice: 6d8+18 (45 hp) the same moan effect from the same cloaker for 24 hours. All save
Initiative: +7 DCs for moan effects are Charisma-based.
Speed: 10 ft. (2 squares), fly 40 ft. (average) Unnerve: Anyone within a 60-foot spread automatically takes
Armor Class: 19 (–1 size, +3 Dex, +7 natural), touch 12, a –2 penalty on attack and damage rolls. Those forced to hear the
flat-footed 16 moan for more than 6 consecutive rounds must succeed on a
Base Attack/Grapple: +4/+13 DC 15 Will save or enter a trance, unable to attack or defend
Attack: Tail slap +8 melee (1d6+5) themselves until the moaning stops.
Full Attack: Tail slap +8 melee (1d6+5) and bite +3 melee (1d4+2) Fear: Anyone within a 30-foot spread must succeed on a DC 15
Space/Reach: 10 ft./10 ft. (5 ft. with bite) Will save or become panicked for 2 rounds.
Special Attacks: Moan, engulf Nausea: Anyone in a 30-foot
Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., shadow cone must succeed on a DC 15
shift Fortitude save or be over-
Saves: Fort +5, Ref +5, Will +7 come by nausea and weak-
Abilities: Str 21, Dex 16, Con 17, Int ness. Affected characters
14, Wis 15, Cha 15 fall prone and become
Skills: Hide +8, Listen +13, Move nauseated for 1d4+1
Silently +12, Spot +13 rounds.
.T Feats: Alertness, Combat Stupor: A single crea-
yb Reflexes, Improved ture within 30 feet of the
.sullI Initiative cloaker must succeed on
Environment: a DC 15 Fortitude save
Underground or be affected as though
Organization: Solitary, by a hold monster spell
mob (3–6), or flock for 5 rounds. Even after a
(7–12) successful save, the crea-
Challenge Rating: 5 ture must repeat the save if
Treasure: Standard the cloaker uses this effect
Alignment: Usually again.
chaotic neutral Engulf (Ex): A cloaker can
Advancement: 7–9 HD try to wrap a Medium or smaller
(Large); 10–18 HD creature in its body as a standard
(Huge) action. The cloaker attempts a grap-
Level Adjustment: — ple that does not provoke an attack of
opportunity. If it wins the grapple
A long black cloak hangs from the cave wall. Suddenly, the cloak slips check, it establishes a hold and bites the
from the wall and catches a breeze moving through the cavern. Then engulfed victim with a +4 bonus on its
it unfolds, the cloak becoming dark wings and a bony, whiplike tail unfurl- attack roll. It can still use its whiplike
ing to stretch out behind it. It flies forward, revealing a toothy maw and Cloaker tail to strike at other targets.
piercing red eyes deep in the shadows of its raylike body. Attacks that hit an engulfing cloaker
deal half their damage to the monster and half to the trapped
Cloakers are bizarre creatures that lurk in dark places far beneath victim.
the surface. They kill intruders without remorse or pause, except Shadow Shift (Su): A cloaker can manipulate shadows. This
to plan cruel amusement. ability is effective only in shadowy areas and has three possible
When resting or lying in wait, these creatures are almost impos- effects.
sible to distinguish from common black cloaks (the cloaker’s ivory Obscure Vision: The cloaker gains concealment (20% miss
claws look very much like bone clasps). Only when it unfurls does chance) for 1d4 rounds.
the horrific nature of the creature become apparent. Dancing Images: This effect duplicates a mirror image spell (caster
36 Cloakers pursue their own mysterious goals. While they are cer- level 6th).
tainly intelligent, their minds work in a way so alien that few Silent Image: This effect duplicates a silent image spell (DC 15,
humans have ever been able to make meaningful contact with one. caster level 6th). The save DC is Charisma-based.

