CREATURE
This hulking giant has Fiendish creatures dwell on the
two heads. Each head lower planes, the realms of evil,
has a porcine face with a although they resemble beings found on
shovel jaw and protruding the Material Plane. They are more fearsome
lower canines like a boar’s tusks. The rest in appearance than their earthly counterparts.
of its teeth are large and rotten. Its Fiendish creatures are often mistaken for half-
stringy hair is filthy, just like the fiends, more powerful creatures that are created when
rest of the creature. a fiend mates with a noncelestial creature, or
through some foul infernal breeding project.
Ettins, or two-headed giants, are
vicious and unpredictable hunters that stalk the night. Their SAMPLE FIENDISH CREATURE
two heads make them exceptionally sharp-eyed and alert. They Fiendish Dire Rat
are excellent guardians and scouts. Small Magical Beast (Augmented Animal, Extraplanar)
An ettin never bathes if it can help it, which usually leaves it Hit Dice: 1d8+1 (5 hp)
so grimy and dirty its skin resembles thick, gray hide (ettins Initiative: +3
that don’t smell bad are rare indeed). Adult ettins are about 13 Speed: 40 ft. (8 squares), climb 20 ft.
feet tall and weigh 5,200 pounds. They live about 75 years. Armor Class: 15 (+1 size, +3 Dex, +1 natural), touch 14,
Ettins have no language of their own but speak a pidgin of Orc, flat-footed 11
Goblin, and Giant. Creatures that can speak any of these lan- Base Attack/Grapple: +0/–4
guages must succeed on a DC 15 Intelligence check to communi- Attack: Bite +4 melee (1d4 plus disease)
cate with an ettin. Check once for each bit of information: If the Full Attack: Bite +4 melee (1d4 plus disease)
other creature speaks two of these languages, the DC is 10, and for Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft.
someone who speaks all three, the DC is 5. Ettins talk among Special Attacks: Disease, smite good
themselves without difficulty, despite their low Intelligence, and Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., resistance to cold 5 and fire
a lone ettin often whiles away the hours chatting with itself. 5, scent, spell resistance 6
Saves: Fort +3, Ref +5, Will +3
