DELVER
ment.
Huge Aberration A delver is about 15 feet long and 10 feet wide. It weighs about
Hit Dice: 15d8+78 (145 hp) 6,000 pounds.
Initiative: +5 Delvers speak Terran and Undercommon.
Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares), burrow 10 ft.
Armor Class: 24 (–2 size, +1 Dex, +15 natural), touch 9, COMBAT
flat-footed 23 A delver prefers to fight from its tunnel, which it uses to protect
Base Attack/Grapple: +11/+27 its flanks while lashing out with its flippers.
Attack: Slam +17 melee (1d6+8 plus 2d6 acid) A delver expecting trouble may honeycomb an area with tun-
Full Attack: 2 slams +17 melee (1d6+8 plus 2d6 acid) nels, leaving most closed with layers of stone 1 or 2 inches thick.
Space/Reach: 15 ft./10 ft. The delver can quickly dissolve the stone cover and pop up to
Special Attacks: Corrosive slime attack unexpectedly. DELVER
Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., immunity to acid, stone Corrosive Slime (Ex): A delver produces a mucuslike slime
shape, tremorsense 60 ft. that contains a highly corrosive substance. The slime is particu-
Saves: Fort +12, Ref +6, Will +11 larly effective against stone.
Abilities: Str 27, Dex 13, Con 21, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 12 A delver’s mere touch deals 2d6 points of acid damage to
Skills: Knowledge (dungeoneering) +14, Knowledge (nature) +4, organic creatures or objects. Against metallic creatures or
Listen +20, Move Silently +17, Spot +20, Survival +14 (+16 objects, a delver’s slime deals 4d8 points of damage, and against
underground) stony creatures (including earth elementals) or objects it deals
Feats: Alertness, Blind-Fight, Great Fortitude, Improved 8d10 points of damage. A slam attack by a delver leaves a patch
Initiative, Power Attack, Toughness of slime that deals 2d6 points of damage on contact and another
Environment: Underground 2d6 points of damage in each of the next 2 rounds. A large quan-
Organization: Solitary tity (at least a quart) of water or weak acid, such as vinegar,
Challenge Rating: 9 washes off the slime.
Treasure: None An opponent’s armor and clothing dissolve and become useless
Alignment: Usually neutral immediately unless the wearer succeeds on a DC 22 Reflex save.
Advancement: 16–30 HD (Huge); 31–45 HD (Gargantuan) Weapons that strike a delver also dissolve immediately unless the
Level Adjustment: — wielder succeeds on a DC 22 Reflex save.
A creature attacking a delver with natural weapons takes
A huge creature burrows through the solid rock wall. Its teardrop-shaped, damage from its slime each time an attack hits unless the
rocky body glistens with slime, and it uses the blunt claws of its two great creature succeeds on a DC 22 Reflex save. These save DCs are
appendages to clear away the debris. Constitution-based.
Stone Shape (Ex): A delver can alter its slime to temporarily
The delver is a bizarre creature that lives in the depths of the soften stone instead of dissolving it. Once every 10 minutes, a
earth, burrowing through solid stone with the help of a corro- delver can soften and shape up to 25 cubic feet of stone, as a stone
sive slime it secretes from its rocklike skin. shape spell (caster level 15th).
Delvers are shy and mostly
inoffensive, but rogue speci-
mens with murderous streaks
are not unknown. They feed
on stone and may even devour
creatures such as xorns and
earth elementals. A delver bur-
rowing through stone leaves
behind a usable tunnel about
10 feet in diameter.
The slime covering a delver’s
body is highly corrosive. The
creature feeds by dissolving
rock with its slime and shov-
ing the resulting goo under its
body, the underside of which
is almost all mouth.
A delver eats rock but en-
joys various nonmetallic min-
erals as seasonings in the
same way that a human enjoys
spices. Adventurers might
secure information and assis-
tance from a delver by offer-
ing it tasty minerals (usually
gems) or pick-me-ups (such
as coins). Metal is an intoxi-
cant to delvers. Some delvers 39
become addicted to metal and

Combat
