DESTRACHAN
Level Adjustment: — (+2 if sane)
Large Aberration
A small, stocky dwarflike creature in studded leather armor titters and Hit Dice: 8d8+24 (60 hp)
mumbles to himself. His skin is a pale blue-white color, and his bulbous Initiative: +5
white eyes have no irises or pupils. His hair is coarse and white, and a long Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares)
mustache droops past his chin. Armor Class: 18 (–1 size, +1 Dex, +8 natural), touch 10,
flat-footed 17
Derro are degenerate and evil creatures of the underground, cre- Base Attack/Grapple: +6/+14
ated from dwarf and human stock by some nameless deity of dark- Attack: Claw +9 melee (1d6+4)
ness and madness. Incredibly cruel and murderously insane, they Full Attack: 2 claws +9 melee (1d6+4)
enjoy taking slaves and torturing surface dwellers (especially Space/Reach: 10 ft./5 ft.
humans) to death. Special Attacks: Destructive harmonics
Derro are afflicted by a form of racial madness, which most often Special Qualities: Blindsight 100 ft., immunities, protection
manifests as delusions of grandeur coupled with an overpower- from sonics
ing urge to inflict torment on other creatures. Derro are capable Saves: Fort +5, Ref +5, Will +10
of holding their murderous impulses in check for short periods of Abilities: Str 18, Dex 12, Con 16, Int 12, Wis 18, Cha 12
time in order to cooperate with creatures of other races, but such Skills: Hide +8, Listen +25, Move Silently +7, Survival +9
arrangements rarely last more than a few weeks. Of course, no Feats: Dodge, Improved Initiative, Lightning Reflexes
derro is capable of recognizing that he is out of his mind. Environment: Underground
Organization: Solitary or pack (3–5)
COMBAT Challenge Rating: 8
Derro are stealthy and bloodthirsty. They like to carefully arrange Treasure: None
cruel traps and deadly ambushes, and strike savagely from hiding. Alignment: Usually neutral evil
They delight in taking captives who can be tortured to death later, Advancement: 9–16 HD (Large); 17–24 HD (Huge)
and favor traps and poisons that disable without killing. Level Adjustment: —
Madness (Ex): Derro use their Charisma modifier on Will
saves instead of their Wisdom modifier, and have immunity to The creature shambles forward on thick, taloned legs. Vaguely reptilian in
confusion and insanity effects. A derro cannot be restored to sanity form, its large, stooped frame ends in a mostly featureless head dominated
by any means short of a miracle or wish spell. by large ear structures and a gaping, toothless mouth.
*The racial madness of the derro provides a +6 bonus to their
Charisma scores and a –6 penalty to their Wisdom scores. A The dungeon-dwelling destrachan looks like some bizarre, nonin-
derro restored to sanity gains 6 points of Wisdom and loses 6 telligent beast, but it’s an incredibly evil and crafty sadist.
points of Charisma. A destrachan has a pair of complex, three-part ears that it can
Poison Use (Ex): Derro typically carry 2d4 doses of greenblood adjust to be more or less sensitive to various sounds. It is blind,
oil or Medium monstrous spider venom (see Poison, page 296 of yet hunts with a sense of hearing more precise than most crea- 49
the Dungeon Master’s Guide), applying it to their crossbow bolts. tures’ sight.
Derro are not at risk of poisoning themselves when handling From its tubular mouth a destrachan emits carefully focused har-

monics, producing sonic energy so powerful it can shatter a points of damage to all within the area (Reflex DC 15 half ).
stone wall. So skilled is a destrachan at controlling the sounds it Nerves: A destrachan can focus its harmonics to knock out foes
emits that it can choose what type of material to affect with rather than slay them. This attack deals 6d6 points of nonlethal
its attack. damage to all within the area (Reflex DC 15 half ).
Destrachans feed on death and misery. They haunt inhabited un- Material: When using this form of harmonics, a destrachan
derground complexes, spreading woe for evil’s own sake. They can chooses wood, stone, metal, or glass. All objects made of that mate-
blast their way through stone well enough to travel beneath the rial within the area must succeed on a DC 15 Fortitude save or
surface as they wish. Sometimes a destrachan subdues its victims shatter. Objects (or portions of objects) that have up to 30 hit
and brings them back to its lair for torture and imprisonment. points are potentially affected by this attack.
No living thing would ever willingly ally itself with this mon- Blindsight (Ex): A destrachan can use hearing to ascertain all
ster, although sometimes undead or evil outsiders accompany a foes within 100 feet as a sighted creature would.
destrachan as it attacks and slays other creatures. Immunities: Destrachans have immunity to gaze attacks,
A destrachan is about 10 feet long from its mouth to the tip of visual effects, illusions, and other attack forms that rely on sight.
