DEVOURER
wields, are treated as evil-aligned and lawful-aligned for the pur-
pose of overcoming damage reduction. Large Undead (Extraplanar)
Constrict (Ex): A pit fiend deals 2d8+26 points of damage with Hit Dice: 12d12 (78 hp)
a successful grapple check. Initiative: +4
Disease (Su): A creature struck by a pit fiend’s bite attack must Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares)
RERUOVEDonallerA succeed on a DC 27 Fortitude save or be Armor Class: 24 (–1 size, +15 natural), touch 9, flat-footed 24
infected with a vile disease known Base Attack/Grapple: +6/+19
as devil chills (incubation period Attack: Claw +15 melee (1d6+9)
1d4 days, damage 1d4 Str). The save Full Attack: 2 claws +15 melee (1d6+9)
DC is Constitution-based. Space/Reach: 10 ft./10 ft.
Fear Aura (Su): A pit fiend can Special Attacks: Energy drain, trap essence, spell-like abilities
radiate a 20-foot-radius fear aura as a Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., spell deflection,
free action. A creature in the area must spell resistance 21, undead traits
succeed on a DC 27 Will save or be Saves: Fort +4, Ref +4, Will +11
affected as though by a fear spell (caster Abilities: Str 28, Dex 10, Con —, Int 16, Wis 16,
level 18th). A creature that successfully Cha 17
saves cannot be affected again by the same Skills: Climb +24, Concentration +18, Diplomacy
pit fiend’s aura for 24 hours. Other baatezu +5, Jump +24, Listen +18, Move Silently +15,
are immune to the aura. The save DC is Search +10, Sense Motive +11, Spot +18, Survival
Charisma-based. +3 (+5 following tracks)
Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, a Feats: Blind-Fight, Combat Casting,
pit fiend must hit with its tail slap attack. It Expertise, Improved Initiative, Weapon
can then attempt to start a grapple as a free Focus (claw)
action without provoking an attack of oppor- Environment: Any
tunity. If it wins the grapple check, it estab- Organization: Solitary
lishes a hold and can constrict. Challenge Rating: 11
Poison (Ex): Injury, Fortitude DC 27, ini- Treasure: None
tial damage 1d6 Con, secondary damage Alignment: Always neutral evil
.C death. The save DC is Constitution-based. Advancement: 13–24 HD (Large);
yb Spell-Like Abilities: At will—blas- 25–36 HD (Huge)
.sullI
phemy (DC 25), create undead, fireball (DC Level Adjustment: —
21), greater dispel magic, greater teleport (self
plus 50 pounds of objects only), invisibility, This tall, skeletal creature has strands of
magic circle against good, mass hold monster mummified flesh hanging from its bones.
(DC 27), persistent image (DC 23), power word Imprisoned within the creature’s rib cage is a tiny
stun, unholy aura (DC 26); 1/day—meteor figure, clearly in agony.
swarm (DC 27). Caster level 18th. The save
DCs are Charisma-based. Devourers are massive creatures every bit as evil as
Once per year a pit fiend can use wish as the they look. They lurk on the Ethereal Plane and the
spell (caster level 20th). Astral Plane, stalking both natives and travelers with
Summon Baatezu (Sp): Twice per day a pit fiend equal sadistic glee.
can automatically summon 2 lemures, bone devils, The tiny figure in the rib cage is the trapped
or bearded devils, or 1 erinyes, horned devil, or ice essence of a slain opponent, which is consumed
devil. This ability is the equivalent of an 8th-level spell. like firewood to sustain the monster’s unnatural life.
Regeneration (Ex): A pit fiend takes normal damage A devourer is about 9 feet tall and weighs 500
from good-aligned silvered weapons, and from spells or pounds.
effects with the good descriptor. Devourers speak Common.
Tactics Round-by-Round COMBAT
A pit fiend typically opens combat by using its spell- Devourer Even if it had no special abilities, a devourer would
like abilities, attempting to neutralize dangerous be a terrible opponent, for its bony claws can flay
opponents before entering melee. enemies alive.
Prior to combat: Unholy aura; activate fear aura, Energy Drain (Su): Living creatures hit by a
summon baatezu. devourer’s claw attack or spectral hand ability gain
Round 1: Quickened fireball and mass hold mon- one negative level. The DC is 19 for the Fortitude save
ster if facing three or more visible, active oppo- to remove a negative level. The save DC is Charisma-
nents; otherwise power word stun against unarmored opponent based.
(preferably a spellcaster). Trap Essence (Su): The devourer is named for its abil-
58 Round 2: Meteor swarm against as many foes as possible, ity to consume an enemy’s life essence. To do so, it must
approach worst-injured enemy. forgo its normal melee attacks and make a trap essence attack.
Round 3: Full attack against injured enemy. This requires a normal attack roll but deals no damage. The

affected creature must succeed on a DC 19 Fortitude save or die Saves: Fort +9, Ref +10, Will +3
instantly. The save DC is Charisma-based. Abilities: Str 17, Dex 15, Con 17, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 10
A slain creature’s essence is trapped within the devourer’s ribs, Skills: Hide +9, Listen +6, Jump +21, Spot +6
and the tiny figure takes on that victim’s features. The trapped Feats: Alertness, Improved Initiative, Lightning Reflexes
essence cannot be raised or resurrected, but a limited wish, miracle, Environment: Warm forests
or wish spell frees it, as does destroying the devourer. A devourer Organization: Solitary or pack (3–6)
can hold only one essence at a time. Challenge Rating: 6
The trapped essence provides a devourer with enough power to Treasure: None
use five spell-like abilities for each Hit Die or level of the trapped Alignment: Always neutral
creature. As this energy is expended, the twisted soul fades away Advancement: 9–12 HD (Medium); 13–24 HD (Large)
until it evaporates completely. The trapped essence gains one neg- Level Adjustment: —
ative level for every five times the devourer uses one of its spell-
