DRAGON
sweep affects a half-circle with a radius of 30 feet (or category are subject to the effect if they have
40 feet for a Colossal dragon), extending from an fewer HD than the dragon.
intersection on the edge of the drag- A potentially affected creature that succeeds on a
on’s space in any direction. Crea- Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 dragon’s HD + dragon’s Cha modifier)
tures within the swept area are remains immune to that dragon’s frightful presence
affected if they are four or more size for 24 hours. On a failure, creatures with 4 or
categories smaller than the dragon. less HD become panicked for 4d6 rounds
A tail sweep automatically deals the and those with 5 or more HD become
indicated damage plus 1-1/2 times the shaken for 4d6 rounds. Dragons ignore
dragon’s Strength bonus (round down). the frightful presence of other dragons.
Affected creatures can attempt Reflex Spells:A dragon knows and casts
saves to take half damage (DC equal to that arcane spells as a sorcerer of the level
of the dragon’s breath weapon). indicated in its variety description, gain-
Grappling: Dragons do not favor grap- ing bonus spells for a high Charisma
ple attacks, though their crush attack (and score. Some dragons can also cast spells
Snatch feat, if they know it) use normal from the cleric list or cleric domain lists as
grapple rules. arcane spells.
A dragon can always use its breath Spell-Like Abilities: A dragon’s spell-
weapon while grappling, as well as its spells like abilities depend on its age and variety.
and spell-like or supernatural abilities, pro- It gains the abilities indicated for its age plus all
vided it succeeds on Concentration checks. previous ones. Its age category or its sorcerer caster level,
Breath Weapon (Su):Using a breath weapon is a whichever is higher, is the caster level for these abilities. The save
standard action. Once a dragon breathes, it can’t DC is 10 + dragon’s Cha modifier + spell level. All spell-like abili-
breathe again until 1d4 rounds later. If a dragon has ties are usable once per day unless otherwise noted.
more than one type of breath weapon, it still can breathe only Damage Reduction:Young adult and older dragons have
once every 1d4 rounds. A blast from a breath weapon always starts damage reduction. Their natural weapons are treated as magic
at any intersection adjacent to the dragon and extends in a direc- weapons for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction.
tion of the dragon’s choice, with an area as noted on the table Immunities (Ex): Alldragons have immunity to sleepand
below. If the breath weapon deals damage, creatures caught in the paralysis effects. Each variety of dragon has immunity to one or
area can attempt Reflex saves to take half damage; the DC depends two additional forms of attack no matter what its age, as given in
on the dragon’s age and variety, and is given in each individual its description.
entry. Saves against nondamaging breath weapons use the same Spell Resistance (Ex):As dragons age, they become more
DC; the kind of saving throw is noted in the variety descriptions. resistant to spells and spell-like abilities, as indicated in the vari-
The save DC against a breath weapon is 10 + 1/2 dragon’s HD + ety descriptions.
dragon’s Con modifier. Blindsense (Ex): Dragons can pinpoint creatures within a dis-
Breath weapons come in two basic shapes, line and cone, whose tance of 60 feet. Opponents the dragon can’t actually see still have
areas vary with the dragon’s size. total concealment against the dragon.
Keen Senses (Ex): A dragon sees four times as well a human in
Dragon Breath Weapons
shadowy illumination and twice as well in normal light. It also has
Dragon Size Line*(Length) Cone**(Length) darkvision out to 120 feet.
Tiny 30 ft. 15 ft. Skills:All dragons have skill points equal to (6 + Int modifier,
Small 40 ft. 20 ft. minimum 1) ×(Hit Dice + 3). Most dragons purchase the following
Medium 60 ft. 30 ft. skills at the maximum ranks possible: Listen, Search, and Spot. The
Large 80 ft. 40 ft. remaining skill points are generally spent on Concentration,
Huge 100 ft. 50 ft. Diplomacy, Escape Artist, Intimidate, Knowledge (any), Sense
Gargantuan 120 ft. 60 ft. Motive, and Use Magic Device at a cost of 1 skill point per rank. All
Colossal 140 ft. 70 ft. these skills are considered class skills for dragons. (Each dragon has
*A line is always 5 feet high and 5 feet wide. other class skills as well, as noted in the variety descriptions.)
**A cone is as high and wide as its length. Feats:All dragons have one feat, plus an additional feat per 3
Hit Dice, just like any other creature. Dragons favor Alertness,
Frightful Presence (Ex):A young adult or older dragon can Blind-Fight, Cleave, Flyby Attack, Hover, Improved Initiative,
unsettle foes with its mere presence. The ability takes effect Improved Sunder, Power Attack, Snatch, Weapon Focus (claw or 69
automatically whenever the dragon attacks, charges, or flies bite), Wingover, and any metamagic feat that is available and
overhead. Creatures within a radius of 30 feet ×the dragon’s age useful to sorcerers.

Dragon Overland Movement apart. Older females continue to mate and lay eggs, but only
Chromatic and metallic dragons are exceedingly strong flyers one parent stays in the lair to raise young. Often an older
and can cover vast distances quickly. A dragon’s overland flying female lays many clutches of eggs, keeping one to tend herself
speed is a function of its tactical fly speed, as shown on the and one for her mate, and leaving the rest untended. Sometimes
table below. a female dragon places an egg or a wyrmling with nondraconic
foster parents.
Dragon Overland Flying Speeds
