DRAGON, TRUE
attack roll. (Many dragons choose the Multiattack feat to lessen
True dragons are winged, reptilelike creatures of ancient lineage. this penalty to –2).
They are known and feared for their size, physical prowess, and Wing: The dragon can slam opponents with its wings, even
magical abilities. The oldest dragons are among the most powerful when flying. Wing attacks deal the indicated damage plus 1/2 the
creatures in the world. dragon’s Strength bonus (round down) and are treated as second-
The known varieties of true dragons (as opposed to other crea- ary attacks.
tures that have the dragon type) fall into two broad categories: Tail Slap: The dragon can slap one opponent each round with
chromatic and metallic. The chromatic dragons are black, blue, its tail. A tail slap deals the indicated damage plus 1-1/2 times the
green, red, and white; they are all evil and extremely fierce. The dragon’s Strength bonus (round down) and is treated as a second-
metallic dragons are brass, bronze, copper, gold, and silver; they ary attack.
are all good, usually noble, and highly respected by the wise. Crush (Ex): This special attack allows a flying or jumping
All true dragons gain more abilities and greater power as they dragon of at least Huge size to land on opponents as a standard
age. (Other creatures that have the dragon type do not.) They action, using its whole body to crush them. Crush attacks are
range in length from several feet upon hatching to more than 100 effective only against opponents three or more size categories
feet after attaining the status of great wyrm. The size of a particu- smaller than the dragon (though it can attempt normal overrun or
lar dragon varies according to age and variety. grapple attacks against larger opponents).
Though they are fearsome predators, dragons scavenge when A crush attack affects as many creatures as can fit under the
necessary and can eat almost anything if they are hungry enough. dragon’s body. Creatures in the affected area must succeed on a
A dragon’s metabolism operates like a highly efficient furnace and Reflex save (DC equal to that of the dragon’s breath weapon) or be
can metabolize even inorganic material. Some dragons have pinned, automatically taking bludgeoning damage during the next
developed a taste for such fare. round unless the dragon moves off them. If the dragon chooses to
Although goals and ideals vary among varieties, all dragons maintain the pin, treat it as a normal grapple attack. Pinned oppo-
are covetous. They like to hoard wealth, collecting mounds of nents take damage from the crush each round if they don’t escape.
coins and gathering as many gems, jewels, and magic items as A crush attack deals the indicated damage plus 1-1/2 times the
68 possible. Those with large hoards are loath to leave them for dragon’s Strength bonus (round down).
long, venturing out of their lairs only to patrol the immediate Tail Sweep (Ex): This special attack allows a dragon of at least
area or to get food. For dragons, there is no such thing as Gargantuan size to sweep with its tail as a standard action. The

Dragon Space/Reach, Attacks, and Damage
1 Tail 1 Tail
Size Space/Reach* 1 Bite 2 Claws 2 Wings Slap 1 Crush Sweep
Tiny 2-1/2 ft./0 ft. (5 ft. with bite) 1d4 1d3 — — — —
Small 5 ft./5 ft. 1d6 1d4 — — — —
Medium 5 ft./5 ft. 1d8 1d6 1d4 — — —
Large 10 ft./5 ft. (10 ft. with bite) 2d6 1d8 1d6 1d8 — —
Huge 15 ft./10 ft. (15 ft. with bite) 2d8 2d6 1d8 2d6 2d8 —
Gargantuan 20 ft./15 ft. (20 ft. with bite) 4d6 2d8 2d6 2d8 4d6 2d6
Colossal 30 ft./20 ft. (30 ft. with bite) 4d8 4d6 2d8 4d6 4d8 2d8
*A dragon’s bite attack has reach as if the creature were one size category larger. All other attacks are made with the standard reach for the
dragon’s size.
