DWARF
picks, shortbows, heavy crossbows, and maces.
Stocky, broad of body and extremely muscular, the short figure before you Dwarf Traits (Ex): Dwarves possess the following racial traits.
may lack in height but not in physical strength or presence. Wrapped in — +2 Constitution, –2 Charisma.
metal armor and armed with a waraxe, the humanoid has light brown —Medium size.
skin, ruddy cheeks, and bright eyes, with black hair and a long, carefully —A dwarf ’s base land speed is 20 feet. However, dwarves can
groomed beard and mustache. move at this speed even when wearing medium or heavy armor or
when carrying a medium or heavy load.
Dwarves are noble warriors who excel at metalcraft, stoneworking, —Darkvision out to to 60 feet.
and war. They tend to be serious, determined, and very honorable. —Stonecunning: This ability grants a dwarf a +2 racial bonus
Dwarves favor earth tones in their clothing and prefer on Search checks to notice unusual stonework, such as sliding
simple and functional garb. The skin can be very dark, but it is walls, stonework traps, new construction (even when built to
always some shade of tan or brown. Hair color can be black, match the old), unsafe stone surfaces, shaky stone ceilings, and
gray, or brown. Dwarves average 4 feet tall and weigh as much the like. Something that isn’t stone but that is disguised as stone
as adult humans. also counts as unusual stonework. A dwarf who merely comes
Dwarves prefer to spend their time making masterpieces of within 10 feet of unusual stonework can make a Search check as
stone, steel, and precious metals. They create durable weapons, craft if he were actively searching, and a dwarf can use the Search
beautiful jewelry, and cut superior gems. However, they consider it skill to find stonework traps as a rogue can. A dwarf can also
bad taste to flaunt wealth, so few wear jewelry other than one intuit depth, sensing his approximate depth underground as
simple piece. naturally as a human can sense which way is up. Dwarves have a
Dwarves speak Dwarven. Most who travel outside dwarven sixth sense about stonework, an innate ability that they get
lands (as traders, mercenaries, or adventurers) know the Common plenty of opportunity to practice and hone in their under-
tongue, while warriors in the dwarven cities usually learn ground homes.
Goblin to better interrogate and spy on those evil denizens of —Weapon Familiarity: Dwarves treat dwarven waraxes and 91
the deep caves. dwarven urgroshes (see Chapter 7 of the Player’s Handbook) as mar-
Most dwarves encountered outside their home are warriors. tial weapons, rather than exotic weapons.

—Stability: Dwarves are exceptionally stable on their feet. A Deep Dwarf
dwarf has a +4 bonus on ability checks made to resist being These dwarves live far underground and tend to be more stand-
bull rushed or tripped when standing on the ground (but not offish with nondwarves.
when climbing, flying, riding, or otherwise not standing firmly Deep dwarves are the same height as other dwarves, but leaner.
on the ground). Their skin sometimes has a reddish tinge, and their large eyes lack
— +2 racial bonus on saving throws against poison. *Not re- the brightness of those of their kindred, being a washed-out blue.
flected in the saving throw numbers given here. Their hair color ranges from bright red to straw blond. They have
— +2 racial bonus little contact with surface dwellers, relying on hill dwarves or
on saving throws mountain dwarves to trade goods for them.
against spells and Deep dwarves speak Dwarven and Goblin, and occasionally
spell-like effects. Draconic or Undercommon.
*Not reflected in the Deep Dwarf Traits (Ex): These traits are in addition to the
saving throw num- Hill dwarf hill dwarf traits, except where noted.
