EDAHSTHGIN
A nightcrawler attacks by burrowing through the ground and Special Attacks: Crush item, desecrating aura, evil gaze,
emerging to strike. spell-like abilities, summon undead
A nightcrawler’s natural weapons are treated as magic Special Qualities: Aversion to daylight, damage
weapons for the purpose of overcoming damage reduc- reduction 15/silver and magic, darkvision 60 ft.,
tion. immunity to cold, spell resistance 29, telepathy
Energy Drain (Su): Living creatures inside a night- 100 ft., undead traits
crawler’s gizzard gain one negative level each round. Saves: Fort +11, Ref +11, Will +19
The DC is 26 for the Fortitude save to remove a Abilities: Str 38, Dex 14, Con —, Int 20, Wis
negative level. The save DC is Charisma-based. 20, Cha 18
For each such negative level bestowed, the Skills: Concentration +28, Diplomacy +6, Hide
nightcrawler gains 5 temporary hit points. +18*, Knowledge (arcana) +29, Listen +29,
Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, a Move Silently +26, Search +29, Sense Motive
nightcrawler must hit with its bite attack. It +29, Spellcraft +31, Spot +29, Survival +5 (+7
can then attempt to start a grapple as a free following tracks)
action without provoking an attack of Feats: Cleave, Combat Expertise, Combat
opportunity. If it wins the grapple Reflexes, Great Fortitude, Improved
check, it establishes a hold and can try Disarm, Improved Initiative, Power
to swallow the opponent in the fol- Attack, Quicken Spell-Like Ability
lowing round. (unholy blight)
Poison (Ex): Injury, Fortitude Environment: Plane of Shadow
DC 22, initial and secondary Organization: Solitary, pair, or gang
damage 2d6 Str. The save DC is (3–4)
Constitution-based. Challenge Rating: 16
Spell-Like Abilities: At Treasure: Standard
will—contagion (DC 18), deeper Alignment: Always chaotic evil
darkness, detect magic, greater Advancement: 22–31 HD
dispel magic, haste, invisibility, (Huge); 32–42 HD
see invisibility, unholy blight (Gargantuan)
(DC 18); 3/day—cone of Level Adjustment: —
cold (DC 19), confusion
(DC 18), hold monster The creature looks like a human-
(DC 19); 1/day—finger of oid giant, taller than a house
death (DC 21), mass hold and composed of pure darkness.
monster (DC 23), plane It wears no clothing and has
shift (DC 21). Caster smooth, hairless skin and a
level 25th. The save DCs genderless body.
are Charisma-based.
Summon Undead (Su): A Nightwalkers are human-shaped
nightcrawler can summon undead crea- horrors that haunt the darkness.
tures once per night: 9–16 shadows, 3–6 A nightwalker is about 20 feet tall and
greater shadows, or 2–4 dread wraiths. The weighs about 12,000 pounds.
undead arrive in 1d10 rounds and serve for 1
hour or until released. Combat
Swallow Whole (Ex): A nightcrawler can try Nightwalkers lurk in dark areas where they can
to swallow a grabbed opponent of Huge or almost always surprise the unwary.
smaller size by making a successful grapple check. A nightwalker’s natural weapons are
Once inside, the opponent takes 2d8+12 points of treated as magic weapons for the purpose of
bludgeoning damage plus 12 points of acid damage overcoming damage reduction.
per round from the nightcrawler’s gizzard and is Crush Item (Su): A nightwalker can destroy any
subject to the creature’s energy drain. A swallowed creature Nightwalker weapon or item of Large size or smaller (even magic ones, but
can cut its way out by using a light slashing or piercing not artifacts) by picking it up and crushing it between its
weapon to deal 35 points of damage to the gizzard (AC 21). Once hands. The nightwalker must make a successful disarm attempt to
the creature exits, muscular action closes the hole; another swal- grab an item held by an opponent. The item is entitled to a DC 34
196 lowed opponent must cut its own way out. Fortitude save to resist destruction. The save DC is Strength-based.
A nightcrawler’s interior can hold 2 Huge, 8 Large, 32 Medium, Evil Gaze (Su): Fear, 30 feet. A creature that meets the night-
128 Small, 512 Tiny or smaller opponents. walker’s gaze must succeed on a DC 24 Will save or be paralyzed

with fear for 1d8 rounds. Whether or not the save is successful, The creature seems to be nothing but a mass of utter darkness shaped like
that creature cannot be affected again by the same nightshade’s a monstrous bat.
gaze for 24 hours. This is a mind-affecting fear effect. The save DC
is Charisma-based. Nightwings are batlike flyers that hunt on the wing.
Spell-Like Abilities: At will—contagion (DC 18), deeper dark- A nightwing has a wingspan of about 40 feet and weighs about
ness, detect magic, greater dispel magic, haste, see invisibility, and unholy 4,000 pounds.
blight (DC 18); 3/day—confusion (DC 18), hold monster (DC 19),
invisibility; 1/day—cone of cold (DC 19), finger of death (DC 21), plane Combat
shift (DC 21). Caster level 21st. The save DCs are Charisma-based. Nightwings prowl the night sky and dive onto their victims. They
Summon Undead (Su): A nightwalker can summon undead are all but invisible, detectable only because of the stars they
creatures once per night: 7–12 shadows, 2–5 greater shadows, or obscure in their passing.
1–2 dread wraiths. The undead arrive in 1d10 rounds and serve for A nightwing’s natural weapons are treated as magic weapons for
1 hour or until released. the purpose of overcoming damage reduction. NYMPH
Skills: *When hiding in a dark area, a nightwalker gains a +8 Magic Drain (Su): A nightwing can weaken magic armor,
racial bonus on Hide checks. weapons, and shields by making a successful touch attack. The
targeted item must succeed on a DC 22 Fortitude save or lose 1
Tactics Round-by-Round point of its enhancement bonus (for example, a +2 sword becomes
The nightwalker is an exceedingly intelligent foe that makes the a +1 sword). The save DC is Charisma-based. An item that loses its
best use of all its abilities. It favors using its spell-like abilities to entire enhancement bonus becomes merely a masterwork item
divide and disable its enemies, then closing to melee with oppo- and loses any special abilities (such as flaming) as well. Casting
nents it has isolated from their allies. dispel evil upon the item reverses the effect of the magic drain,
Prior to combat: The nightwalker keeps its see invisibility power provided this occurs within a number of days after the attack
active most of the time. It uses haste and invisibility to prepare for equal to the caster’s level and the caster succeeds on a DC 29
battle. caster level check.
Round 1: Move to within 30 feet to make use of gaze attack and Spell-Like Abilities: At will—contagion (DC 18), deeper dark-
strike with confusion or hold monster, coupled with a quickened ness, detect magic, haste, see invisibility, unholy blight (DC 18);
unholy blight. 3/day—confusion (DC 18), greater dispel magic, hold monster (DC
Round 2: Hit a spellcaster with finger of death and another quick- 19), invisibility; 1/day—cone of cold (DC 19), finger of death (DC
ened unholy blight. 21), plane shift (DC 21). Caster level 17th. The save DCs are
Round 3: Move up to engage the enemy and attempt to disarm an Charisma-based.
enemy fighter. Summon Undead (Su): A nightwing can summon undead
Round 4: Crush the disarmed weapon (or use gaze attack if creatures once per night: 5–12 shadows, 2–4 greater shadows, or 1
disarm attempt failed). dread wraith. The undead arrive in 1d10 rounds and serve for 1
Round 5: Full attack against the unarmed foe (or on a nearby hour or until released.
spellcaster). Skills: *When hiding in a dark area or flying in a dark sky, a
nightwing gains a +8 racial bonus on Hide checks.
