ELF
effects that affect elves as their elf ancestors Destruction, Evil, or Trickery.
are, and they can Drow usually coat their arrows
use magic items that with a potent venom.
are only usable by elves. Drow Poison (Ex): An opponent
—Automatic Languages: hit by a drow’s poisoned
Common, Elven. Bonus Lan- weapon must succeed on a
guages: Any (other than secret lan- DC 13 Fortitude save or fall
guages, such as Druidic). unconscious. After 1 minute,
—Favored Class: Any. When the subject must succeed on
determining whether a multiclass another DC 13 Fortitude save
half-elf takes an experience point or remain unconscious for 2d4
penalty for multiclassing, her hours. A typical drow carries
highest-level class does not 1d4–1 doses of drow knock-
count. out poison. Drow typically
coat arrows and crossbow
Aquatic Elf bolts with this poison, but it
This humanoid is slender and can also be applied to a melee
slightly shorter than a human. weapon. Note that drow have
It has pale, greenish silver skin no special ability to apply
and emerald green hair. Its ears poison without risking being
are pointed, and its fingers and poisoned themselves. Since this
toes are partially webbed. poison is not a magical effect,
drow and other elves are sus-
Also called sea elves, ceptible to it.
these creatures are water- Drow Traits (Ex): These
breathing cousins to traits are in addition to
land-dwelling elves. the high elf traits, except
They cavort amid the where noted.
waves and the ocean — +2 Intelligence, +2
depths with allies such as Charisma.
dolphins and whales. —Darkvision out to 120
Aquatic elves fight underwater feet. This trait replaces the high
with tridents, spears, and nets. elf’s low-light vision.
Many aquatic elves revere Deep —Spell resistance equal to 11 + class levels.
Sashelas, an undersea god of knowl- — +2 racial bonus on Will saves against spells and spell-like
edge and beauty. abilities.
Aquatic Elf Traits (Ex): These traits are in addition to the high —Spell-Like Abilities: Drow can use the following spell-like abili-
elf traits, except where noted. ties once per day: dancing lights, darkness, faerie fire. Caster level equals
— +2 Dexterity, –2 Intelligence. These adjustments replace the the drow’s class levels.
high elf’s ability score adjustments. —Weapon Proficiency: A drow is automatically proficient with
—An aquatic elf has the aquatic subtype. the hand crossbow, the rapier, and the short sword. This trait
—An aquatic elf has a swim speed of 40 feet. replaces the high elf’s weapon proficiency.
—Gills: Aquatic elves can survive out of the water for 1 hour —Automatic Languages: Common, Elven, Undercommon.
per point of Constitution (after that, refer to the suffocation rules Bonus Languages: Abyssal, Aquan, Draconic, Drow Sign Language,
on page 304 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide). Gnome, Goblin, Kuo-toan. This trait replaces the high elf’s auto-
—Superior Low-Light Vision: Aquatic elves can see four times matic and bonus languages.
as far as a human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and similar —Light Blindness: Abrupt exposure to bright light (such as
conditions of low illumination. This trait replaces the high elf ’s sunlight or a daylight spell) blinds drow for 1 round. On subse-
low-light vision. quent rounds, they are dazzled as long as they remain in the
—Favored Class: Fighter. This trait replaces the high elf ’s affected area.
favored class. —Favored Class: Wizard (male) or cleric (female). This trait 103
replaces the high elf’s favored class.
—Level adjustment +2.

The drow warrior presented here had the following ability scores clothing of animal skins and basic plant weaves. Though other
before racial adjustments: Str 13, Dex 11, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 9, elves consider them savages, they contend that they are the
Cha 8. true elves, for the rest have lost their primal elven essence in
Challenge Rating: Drow with levels in NPC classes have a CR needing to build. Nomadic and rugged, wild elves favor the
equal to their character level. Drow with levels in PC classes have sorcerer class rather than wizard, although many are barbar-
a CR equal to their character level +1. ians as well.
Wild Elf Traits (Ex): These traits are in addition to the high elf
Gray Elf traits, except where noted.
This humanoid is slender and nearly as tall as a human. It is pale- — +2 Dexterity, –2 Intelligence. These adjustments replace the
skinned and dark-haired, with pointed ears. high elf’s ability score adjustments.
—Favored Class: Sorcerer. This trait replaces the high elf ’s
Gray elves are the most noble and regal of all elves. Taller and favored class.
