ERGO
ranged (2d6/×3) An ogre mage that loses a
Full Attack: Greatsword +7 melee (3d6+7/19–20) or longbow +2 limb or body part can reat-
ranged (2d6/×3) Ogre mage tach it by holding the severed
Space/Reach: 10 ft./10 ft. member to the stump. Reat-
Special Attacks: Spell-like abilities tachment takes 1 minute. If
Special Qualities: Darkvision 90 ft., low-light vision, the head or some other vital
regeneration 5, spell resistance 19 organ is severed, it must be
Saves: Fort +7, Ref +1, Will +3 reattached within 10 minutes
Abilities: Str 21, Dex 10, Con 17, Int 14, or the creature dies. An ogre
Wis 14, Cha 17 mage cannot regrow lost body
Skills: Concentration +11, Listen +10, parts.
Spellcraft +10, Spot +10
Feats: Combat Expertise, OGRE MAGES AS
Improved Initiative CHARACTERS
Environment: Cold hills Ogre mage characters pos-
Organization:Solitary, pair, or sess the following racial
troupe (1–2 plus 2–4 ogres) traits.
Challenge Rating: 8 — +10 Strength, +6 Con-
Treasure: Double standard stitution, +4 Intelligence, +4
Alignment: Usually lawful evil Wisdom, +6 Charisma.
Advancement: By character —Large size. –1 penalty to
class Armor Class, –1 penalty on
Level Adjustment: +7 attack rolls, –4 penalty on
Hide checks, +4 bonus on grap-
This creature looks like a big, ple checks, lifting and carrying
demonic human. It has green limits double those of Medium
skin, dark hair, and a pair of short characters.
ivory horns protruding from its —Space/Reach: 10 feet/10 feet.
forehead. The eyes are dark with —An ogre mage’s base land speed
strikingly white pupils, and its is 40 feet. It also has a fly speed of 40
teeth and claws are jet black. feet (good).
—Darkvision: Ogre mages can see in
The ogre mage is a more the dark up to 60 feet.
intelligent and dangerous —Racial Hit Dice: An ogre mage begins with
variety of its mundane cousin. five levels of giant, which provide 5d8 Hit
Rapacious and cruel by nature, Dice, a base attack bonus of +3, and base
ogre mages often lead organ- saving throw bonuses of Fort +4, Ref +1,
ized raids for slaves, treasure, and Will +1.
and food. —Racial Skills: An ogre mage’s giant
These creatures dwell in levels give it skill points equal to 8 × (2 + Int mod-
fortified structures or underground lairs, usually living alone or ifier minimum 1). Its class skills are Concentration, Listen, Spell-
with a small group of ogre followers. Status among ogre mages is craft, and Spot.
measured by wealth. While they do not generally associate with —Racial Feats: An ogre mage’s giant levels give it two feats.
their own kind, they often undertake raids and schemes in com- — +5 natural armor bonus..
petition with one another to amass the most riches. —Special Attacks (see above): Spell-like abilities.
An ogre mage stands about 10 feet tall and weighs up to 700 —Special Qualities (see above): Regeneration 5, spell resist-
pounds. Its skin varies in color from light green to light blue, and ance 19.
its hair is black or very dark brown. Ogre mages favor loose, com- —Automatic Languages: Common, Giant. Bonus Languages:
fortable clothing and lightweight armor. Dwarven, Goblin, Infernal, Orc.
200 Ogre mages speak Giant and Common. —Favored Class: Sorcerer.
—Level adjustment +7.

a DC 21 Reflex save. The save DCs are Constitution-based.
