ETHEREAL
scurries back to its lair to admire its prize. When badly wounded, Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., ethereal jaunt
a filcher escapes rather than continuing the fight. Saves: Fort +3, Ref +4, Will +1
Any number of simple ruses can blunt a filcher’s attack. Abilities: Str 14, Dex 12, Con 11, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha 10
Quick-thinking individuals often can recover a stolen item Skills: Listen +5, Move Silently +5, Spot +4
simply by snatching it back before the filcher can escape. (Use Feats: Improved Initiative
the rules for making a disarm attempt, page 155 of the Player’s Environment: Ethereal Plane
Handbook.) Others keep a few cheap baubles available for the Organization:Solitary
local filcher to snatch. Filchers are known to have a nose for Challenge Rating: 3
magic, so items enspelled with Nystul’s magic aura orcontinual Treasure: None
flame spells often prove irresistible, especially if they are also Alignment: Always neutral
gaudy. Fortunately for its target, a filcher usually is satisfied Advancement: 3–4 HD (Medium); 5–6 HD (Large)
with a single prize. Level Adjustment: —
Detect Magic (Su): Ethereal filchers can detect magic as the
spell (caster level 5th) at will. This creature resembles a bipedal lizard with a sinuous tail. Its most
Ethereal Jaunt (Su): An ethereal filcher can shift from the disturbing feature is its lack of a head. Instead it has a gaping maw
Ethereal Plane to the Material Plane as part of any move action, surrounded by three powerful mandibles; gleaming, jet-black teeth line
and shift back again as a free action. It can remain on the Ethe- the inner mouth. Three small eyes ring the maw, interspersed with the
real Plane for 1 round before returning to the Material Plane. The mandibles.
ability is otherwise identical with the ethereal jaunt spell (caster
level 15th). Ethereal marauders are aggressive predators that can move Illus.
Skills: Ethereal filchers have a +8 racial bonus on Sleight of quickly from the Ethereal Plane to attack opponents on the Mate-
Hand checks, and a +4 racial bonus on rial Plane. by
Listen and Spot checks. Ethereal marauders live and hunt on the Ethereal Plane. Their B.
Despain
ecology and habits are obscure at best—few have observed them
in their natural habitat for any length of time, and their appear-
ances on the Material Plane are limited to those occasions when
they are attacking prey. They are assumed to have no society or cul-
ture in the traditional sense, being motivated solely by the need
for sustenance and survival.
Ethereal marauders’ coloration ranges from bright blue to deep
violet. An ethereal marauder stands about 4 feet tall, but its overall
length is about 7 feet. It weighs about 200 pounds.
Ethereal marauders speak no
known languages. Survivors of their
attacks on the Material Plane claim
that they emit an eerie, high whine that
varies in pitch depending on the creature’s
speed and health.
