FEATURES
D&D, DUNGEONS& DRAGONS, and DUNGEONMASTERare
registered trademarks owned by Wizards of the Coast, Inc. The outpost consists of a series of tunnels and cham-
The d20 logo is a trademark owned by Wizards of the bers carved out by the hobgoblins’ slaves. It has a single
Coast, Inc. All Wizards characters, character names, and
the distinctive likenesses thereof are trademarks owned by floor that lies about 15 feet below the surface, though a
Wizards of the Coast, Inc. few areas are slightly lower than others are. Unless
This material is protected under the copyright laws of otherwise stated in the text for a specific area, the out-
the United States of America. Any reproduction or unauthorized
post’s major features are as follows.
use of the material or artwork contained herein is prohibited
without the express written permission of Walls:The walls are made of packed earth mixed
Wizards of the Coast, Inc.
with stones. The Climb DC for such a wall is 20.
©2003 Wizards of the Coast, Inc. All rights reserved. Ceilings:The ceilings within the outpost are 8
Made in the U.S.A.
feet high.
This product is a work of fiction. Any similarity to actual people, Floors:Floors are made of packed earth and stone.
organizations, places, or events is purely coincidental.
Their composition is similar to that of the walls, except
This Wizards of the Coast game product contains no
that the floors have been smoothed over with clay and
Open Game Content. No portion of this work may be reproduced
in any form without written permission. To learn more about the covered with reeds and twigs that tend to crackle
Open Gaming License and the d20 System License,
underfoot. Anyone moving along a floor takes a –5
please visit www.wizards.com/d20.
penalty on Move Silently checks.
Doors: The few doors in the outpost are made of
reinforced wood, and all of them have locks unless
otherwise noted. The adept in area 7 and the sergeant
1
in area 8 have keys to all the doors.

DStrong Wooden Door: 2 in. thick; hardness 5; hp these walls are exceptionally loose, so the surface tends
20; Break DC 23; Open Lock DC 20. to crumble and break away when touched. This feature
Light: The hobgoblins rely primarily on their gives the shaft a base Climb DC of 30.
darkvision to see, and no areas are lit except as noted. The raised ledge near each entrance is about 5 feet
high. It’s a fairly easy matter for a creature of at least
Medium size to scramble up to one of these ledges
