FRAWD
bers given here. —Racial bonus on saves against spells and spell-
— +1 racial bonus on attack like abilities increases to +3.
rolls against orcs (including half- —Racial bonus on Fortitude saves against
orcs) and goblinoids (including poisons increases to +3.
goblins, hobgoblins, and bug- —Darkvision out to 90 feet.
bears). —Light Sensitivity: Deep dwarves are
— +4 dodge bonus to dazzled in bright sunlight or within
Armor Class against creatures the radius of a daylight spell.
of the giant type (such as ogres,
trolls, and hill giants). Duergar
— +2 racial bonus on Appraise Sometimes called gray dwarves,
checks that are related to stone or these evil beings dwell in the
metal items. underground.
— +2 racial bonus on Craft Most duergar are bald (even the
checks that are related to stone or females), and they dress in drab clothing
metal. that is designed to blend into stone. In their
—Automatic Languages: Common, lairs they may wear jewelry, but it is always kept
Dwarven. Bonus Languages: Giant, dull. They war with other dwarves, even allying
Gnome, Goblin, Orc, Terran, Under- with other underground creatures from time to
common. time.
—Favored Class: Fighter. The duergar revere the deity Laduguer, a
joyless god who demands constant toil.
The dwarf warrior presented here had the Duergar speak Dwarven and Under-
following ability scores before racial adjustments: common.
Str 13, Dex 11, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 8. Duergar Traits (Ex): These traits are in
addition to the hill dwarf traits, except where
DWARF SOCIETY noted.
Dwarves prefer living in underground cities that they build around — –4 Charisma instead of –2.
mines (although some live on surface outposts). Carved into solid —Darkvision out to 120 feet.
stone, these cities take centuries to complete but remain for ages. —Immunity to paralysis, phantasms, and poison. This trait
Dwarf society is organized into clans, with distinct family lines replaces the hill dwarf’s +2 racial bonus on saving throws against
within each. A clan is led by a hereditary ruler, usually a king or poison.
queen who is a direct descendant of the clan’s founder. Dwarves are — +2 racial bonus on saves against spells and spell-like abilities.
strongly loyal to their family, clan, monarch, and people as a whole; —Spell-Like Abilities: 1/day—enlarge person and invisibility as a
in conflicts with other races, even objective dwarves tend to side wizard of twice the duergar’s class level (minimum caster level 3rd);
with their kinfolk. These ties have helped dwarves survive genera- these abilities affect only the duergar and whatever it carries.
tions of warfare against the evil creatures that live under the earth. —Light Sensitivity: Duergar are dazzled in bright sunlight or
A dwarven city has noncombatant members (usually the young, within the radius of a daylight spell.
elderly, and a few adults) equal to 30% of the fighting population; — +4 racial bonus on Move Silently checks.
female dwarves are as numerous as males and are accepted in any — +1 racial bonus on Listen and Spot checks.
part of dwarf society, including warriors. —Automatic Languages: Common, Dwarven, Undercommon.
Dwarf clans usually focus on one or two types of craft, such as Bonus Languages: Draconic, Giant, Goblin, Orc, Terran. This trait
blacksmithing, making weapons or armor, creating jewelry, engi- replaces the hill dwarf’s automatic and bonus languages.
neering, or stonemasonry. To avoid becoming overspecialized, —Favored Class: Fighter.
dwarves apprentice some of their young ones to other clans; this —Level adjustment +1
practice also helps foster unity. Since dwarves live a long time, these —Unlike other dwarves, duergar do not have weapon familiar-
apprenticeships can last many years, even well into adulthood. ity with the dwarven waraxe and dwarven urgrosh.
The chief dwarven deity is Moradin, the god who created their
race and the patron of smiths and other skilled craftworkers. The duergar warrior presented here had the following ability
scores before racial adjustments: Str 13, Dex 11, Con 12, Int 10,
SUBRACES Wis 9, Cha 8.
92 The information above is for hill dwarves, the most common vari- Challenge Rating: Duergar with levels in NPC classes have a
ety. There are three other major dwarven subraces, which differ CR equal to their character level. Duergar with levels in PC classes
from hill dwarves as follows. have a CR equal to their character level +1.

Mountain Dwarf Giant eagles attack creatures that appear threatening, especially
Mountain dwarves live deeper under the mountains than hill those intent on raiding the eagles’ nest for eggs or fledglings,
dwarves but generally not as far underground as deep dwarves. which fetch a handsome price in many civilized areas. Young
They average about 4-1/2 feet tall and have lighter skin and hair eagles can be trained and are prized as aerial mounts.
than hill dwarves, but the same general appearance. They claim they A typical giant eagle stands about 10 feet tall, has a wingspan of
were the first dwarf race and that all other dwarves are descended up to 20 feet, and resembles its smaller cousins in nearly every way
from them, an attitude that contributes to their isolationism. except size. It weighs about 500 pounds.
Giant eagles speak Common and Auran.
