FROST WORM
damage 2d6 Dex. The save DC is Constitution-based.
Spell-Like Abilities: At will—charm monster (DC 17), clairau- Huge Magical Beast (Cold)
dience/clairvoyance, detect chaos, detect thoughts (DC 15), magic circle Hit Dice: 14d10+70 (147 hp) WORM
against chaos, greater teleport; 1/day—dictum (DC 20), order’s wrath Initiative: +4
(DC 17). Caster level 12th. The save DCs are Charisma-based. Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares), burrow 10 ft.
Armor Class: 18 (–2 size, +10 natural), touch 8, flat-footed 18
QUEEN Base Attack/Grapple: +14/+30
This creature looks like a gigantic, bloated ant. Its legs seem atrophied and Attack: Bite +21 melee (2d8+12 plus 1d8 cold)
nonfunctional. Full Attack: Bite +21 melee (2d8+12 plus 1d8 cold)
Space/Reach: 15 ft./10 ft.
The formian queen sits at the center of the hive-city, her bloated Special Attacks: Trill, cold, breath weapon
form never moving from the royal chamber. She is served and Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., death throes, immu-
guarded by the most loyal myrmarchs. nity to cold, low-light vision, vulnerability to fire
The formian queen cannot move. With her tele- Saves: Fort +14, Ref +9, Will +6
pathic abilities, though, she can send instructions to Abilities: Str 26, Dex 10, Con 20, Int 2, Wis 11,
and get reports from any formian within her range. Cha 11
She is about 10 feet long, perhaps 4 feet high, and Skills: Hide +3*, Listen +5, Spot +5
weighs about 3,500 pounds. Feats: Alertness, Improved Initiative, Improved
The queen speaks Formian and Common, Natural Attack (bite), Iron Will, Weapon Focus
although she can communicate with any creature (bite)
telepathically. Environment: Cold plains
Organization: Solitary
Combat Frost worm Challenge Rating: 12
The queen does not fight. She Treasure: None
has no ability to move. If nec- Alignment: Usually neutral
essary, a team of workers Advancement: 15–21 HD (Huge); 22–42 HD
and myrmarchs (or dom- (Gargantuan)
inated slaves) haul her Level Adjustment: —
enormous bulk to where
she needs to go. This sort This long, blue-white creature has
of occurrence is very rare, huge mandibles and a strange
however, and most of the nodule atop its head from which it
time the queen remains generates a trilling sound.
within her well-defended
chambers. Terror of the frozen
Despite her utter lack lands, the frost worm
of physical activity, the spends most of its life
queen can cast spells and burrowing through
use spell-like abilities to the ice, snow, and even
great effect in her own de- the frozen earth. It sur-
fense as well as the defense of faces only to attack its
the hive-city. prey. Frost worms eat yaks,
Spells: The queen casts polar bears, walruses, seals,
arcane spells as a 17th-level sor- moose, and mammoths.
cerer. Sages cannot agree whether this
Typical Sorcerer Spells Known horrible monster is related to the
(6/8/7/7/7/7/6/6/4, base save DC 15 purple worm or to the remorhaz. Perhaps the
+ spell level): 0—acid splash, arcane answer is neither. It is true that frost worms hate
mark, daze, detect magic, light, mage hand, read remorhazes and attack them on sight in a colossal
magic, resistance, touch of fatigue; 1st—comprehend lan- battle that might very well lay waste to a large area.
guages, identify, mage armor, magic missile, shield; 2nd— Remorhazes are frequently the victors in such battles.
hypnotic pattern, invisibility, protection from arrows, resist energy, A frost worn cannot burrow through stone, but can manage
scorching ray; 3rd—dispel magic, heroism, nondetection, slow; 4th— ice and frozen earth. When moving through such hard materials it 111
confusion, detect scrying, Evard’s black tentacles, scrying; 5th—cone of leaves behind a usable tunnel about 5 feet in diameter.
cold, dismissal, teleport, wall of force; 6th—analyze dweomer, geas/quest,

Frost worms lay eggs that to the untrained observer appear to be
