FUNGUS
simply oval-shaped ice formations. Hatchling frost worms must
immediately fend for themselves, growing to maturity in three to Unlike ordinary kinds of fungus, which are harmless to other
five years. Tribesfolk of the cold wastes can sometimes train young living creatures, the two specimens described here—the shrieker
frost worms to help protect the community and even to be ridden and the violet fungus—can be dangerous to unwary adventurers.
using magic, cold-resistant saddles. A fungus lacks chlorophyll, a true stem, roots, or leaves. Inca-
A frost worm is about 40 feet long, 5 feet in diameter, and pable of photosynthesis, it exists as a parasite, breaking
weighs about 8,000 pounds. down organic matter slowly. While both of the
creatures described here occur individu-
COMBAT ally, shriekers and violet fungi often
Frost worms lurk under the snow, waiting for prey to come near. coexist in the same environment.
They begin an attack with a trill and then set upon helpless prey Violet fungus
SUGNUF with their bite.
Trill (Su): A frost worm can emit a noise that forces its
prey to stand motionless. This sonic mind-affecting com-
pulsion affects all creatures other than frost worms within
a 100-foot radius. Creatures must succeed on a DC 17
Will save or be stunned for as long as the worm trills and for 1d4
rounds thereafter, even if they are attacked. However, if
attacked or violently shaken (a full-round action), a victim is
allowed another saving throw. Once a creature has resisted
or broken the effect, it cannot be affected again by that
same frost worm’s trill for 24 hours. The effect’s caster
level is 14th. The save DC is Charisma-based.
Cold (Ex): A frost worm’s body generates intense
cold, causing opponents to take an extra 1d8 points of
cold damage every time the creature succeeds on a bite
attack. Creatures attacking a frost worm unarmed or with
natural weapons take this same cold damage each time one
of their attacks hits.
Breath Weapon (Su): 30-foot cone, once per hour, damage
15d6 cold, Reflex DC 22 half. Opponents held motionless by the
frost worm’s trill get no saving throw. The save DC is Constitution-
based.
Death Throes (Ex): When killed, a frost worm turns to ice and
shatters in an explosion that deals 12d6 points of cold damage and
8d6 points of piercing damage to everything within 100 feet
(Reflex half DC 22). The save DC is Constitution-based.
Skills: *A frost worm, due to its coloration and its affin-
ity for burying itself in the snow, has a +10 racial bonus on Hide
checks in its native environment.
Shrieker Violet Fungus
Medium Plant Medium Plant
Hit Dice: 2d8+2 (11 hp) 2d8+6 (15 hp)
Initiative: –5 –1
Speed: 0 ft. 10 ft. (2 squares)
Armor Class: 8 (–5 Dex, +3 natural), touch 5, flat-footed 8 13 (–1 Dex, +4 natural), touch 9, flat-footed 13
Base Attack/Grapple: +1/–4 +1/+3
Attack: — Tentacle +3 melee (1d6+2 plus poison)
Full Attack: — 4 tentacles +3 melee (1d6+2 plus poison)
Space/Reach: 5 ft./0 ft. 5 ft./10 ft.
Special Attacks: Shriek Poison
Special Qualities: Low-light vision, plant traits Low-light vision, plant traits
Saves: Fort +4, Ref —, Will –4 Fort +6, Ref –1, Will +0
Abilities: Str —, Dex —, Con 13, Int —, Wis 2, Cha 1 Str 14, Dex 8, Con 16, Int —, Wis 11, Cha 9
Skills: — —
Feats: — —
Environment: Underground Underground
Organization: Solitary or patch (3–5) Solitary, patch (2–4), or mixed patch
(2–4 violet fungi and 3–5 shriekers)
Challenge Rating: 1 3
Treasure: None None
112 Alignment: Always neutral Always neutral
Advancement: 3 HD (Medium) 3–6 HD (Medium)
Level Adjustment: — —

COMBAT Environment: Any
Shriekers and violet fungi often work together to attract and kill Organization:Solitary, pair, or wing (5–16)
prey. When the shriekers’ hellish racket attracts a curious creature, Challenge Rating: 4
the violet fungus tries to kill it. Both creatures enjoy the fruits of a Treasure: Standard
successful hunt. Alignment: Usually chaotic evil
Advancement: 5–6 HD (Medium); 7–12 HD (Large)
SHRIEKER Level Adjustment: +5
This creature looks like a human-sized mushroom.
This creature looks like a grotesque, winged humanoid with a horned head
A shrieker is a stationary fungus that emits a loud noise to attract and a stony hide.
prey or when disturbed. Shriekers live in dark, subterranean
places, often in the company of violet fungi, whose poison A gargoyle is a vicious flying predator that enjoys torturing crea-
