GHOST
Armor Class: 12 (+1 Dex, +1 deflection), touch 12, flat-footed 11, Armor Class: Natural armor is the same as the base creature’s
or 21 (+1 Dex, +8 full plate, +2 heavy shield), touch 11, but applies only to ethereal encounters. When the ghost
flat-footed 20 manifests (see below), its natural armor bonus is +0, but it
Base Attack/Grapple: +5/+8 Ghosts gains a deflection bonus equal to its Charisma modifier or
Attack: Incorporeal touch +6 +1, whichever is higher.
melee or +8 against ethe- Attack: A ghost retains all the attacks
real foes (1d6 or 1d6+3 of the base creature, al-
against ethereal though those relying
foes); or master- on physical contact do
work bastard not affect creatures that
sword +10 melee are not ethereal.
(1d10+3/19–20); or Full Attack: A ghost
masterwork short- retains all the attacks of
bow +7 ranged the base creature, al-
(1d6/×3) though those relying on
Full Attack: physical contact do not
Incorporeal touch affect creatures that are
+6 melee or +8 not ethereal.
against ethereal Damage: Against ethe-
foes (1d6 or real creatures, a ghost uses
1d6+3 against the base creature’s damage
ethereal foes); or values. Against non-
masterwork ethereal creatures,
bastard sword the ghost usually cannot
+10 melee deal physical damage at all
(1d10+3/19–20); but can use its special
or masterwork attacks, if any, when it mani-
shortbow +7 fests (see below).
ranged Special Attacks: A
(1d6/×3) ghost retains all the spe-
Space/Reach: 5 cial attacks of the base
ft./5 ft. creature, although
Special Attacks: those relying on
Corrupting touch, malev- physical contact do
olence, manifestation not affect nonethe-
Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 real creatures. The
ft., incorporeal traits, rejuvenation, +4 ghost also gains a
turn resistance, undead traits manifestation ability plus
Saves: Fort +4, Ref +2, Will +2 one to three other special
Abilities: Str 16, Dex 13, Con —, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 12 attacks as described below. The save DC
Skills: Climb +1, Hide –1, Listen +11, Ride +9, Search +8, against a special attack is equal to 10 + 1/2 ghost’s HD + ghost’s
Spot +11 Cha modifier unless otherwise noted.
Feats: Blind-Fight, Cleave, Exotic Weapon Proficiency (bastard Corrupting Gaze (Su): A ghost can blast living beings with a
sword), Improved Initiative, Power Attack, Weapon Focus glance, at a range of up to 30 feet. Creatures that meet the ghost’s
(bastard sword) gaze must succeed on a Fortitude save or take 2d10 points of
Environment: Temperate plains damage and 1d4 points of Charisma damage.
Organization: Solitary, gang (2–4), or mob (7–12) Corrupting Touch (Su): A ghost that hits a living target with its
Challenge Rating: 7 incorporeal touch attack deals 1d6 points of damage. Against ethe-
Treasure: None real opponents, it adds its Strength modifier to attack and damage
Alignment: Any rolls. Against nonethereal opponents, it adds its Dexterity modi-
Level Adjustment: +5 fier to attack rolls only.
Draining Touch (Su): A ghost that hits a living target with its 117
The Will save DC is 16 against this ghost’s malevolence. incorporeal touch attack drains 1d4 points from any one ability
score it selects. On each such successful attack, the ghost heals

5 points of damage to itself. Against ethereal opponents, it adds its tence and set right whatever prevents it from resting in peace.
Strength modifier to attack rolls only. Against nonethereal oppo- The exact means varies with each spirit and may require a good
nents, it adds its Dexterity modifier to attack rolls only. deal of research.
Frightful Moan (Su): A ghost can emit a frightful moan as a stan- Turn Resistance (Ex): A ghost has +4 turn resistance.
dard action. All living creatures within a 30-foot spread must suc- Abilities: Same as the base creature, except that the ghost has
ceed on a Will save or become panicked for 2d4 rounds. This is a no Constitution score, and its Charisma score increases by +4.
sonic necromantic mind-affecting fear effect. A creature that suc- Skills: Ghosts have a +8 racial bonus on Hide, Listen, Search,
cessfully saves against the moan cannot be affected by the same and Spot checks. Otherwise same as the base creature.
ghost’s moan for 24 hours. Environment: Any, often as base creature.
Horrific Appearance (Su): Any living creature within 60 feet Organization: Solitary, gang (2–4), or mob (7–12).
that views a ghost must succeed on a Fortitude save or imme- Challenge Rating: Same as the base creature +2.
diately take 1d4 points of Strength damage, 1d4 points of Dex- Treasure: None.
LUOHG terity damage, and 1d4 points of Constitution damage. A crea- Alignment: Any.
ture that successfully saves against this effect cannot be Level Adjustment: Same as the base creature +5.
affected by the same ghost’s horrific appearance for 24 hours.
Malevolence (Su): Once per round, an ethereal ghost can merge Ghostly Equipment
its body with a creature on the Material Plane. This ability is When a ghost forms, all its equipment and carried items usually
similar to a magic jar spell (caster level 10th or the ghost’s Hit become ethereal along with it. In addition, the ghost retains 2d4
Dice, whichever is higher), except that it does not require a items that it particularly valued in life (provided they are not in
receptacle. To use this ability, the ghost must be manifested and another creature’s possession). The equipment works normally on
it must try move into the target’s space; moving into the target’s the Ethereal Plane but passes harmlessly through material objects
space to use the malevolence ability does not provoke attacks of or creatures. A weapon of +1 or better magical enhancement,
opportunity. The target can resist the attack with a successful however, can harm material creatures when the ghost manifests,
Will save (DC 15 + ghost’s Cha modifier). A creature that suc- but any such attack has a 50% chance to fail unless the weapon is
cessfully saves is immune to that same ghost’s malevolence for 24 a ghost touch weapon (just as magic weapons can fail to harm the
hours, and the ghost cannot enter the target’s space. If the save ghost).
fails, the ghost vanishes into the target’s body. The original material items remain behind, just as the ghost’s
Manifestation (Su): Every ghost has this ability. A ghost dwells physical remains do. If another creature seizes the original, the
on the Ethereal Plane and, as an ethereal creature, it cannot ethereal copy fades away. This loss invariably angers the ghost, who
affect or be affected by anything in the material world. When a stops at nothing to return the item to its original resting place.
ghost manifests, it partly enters the Material Plane and
becomes visible but incorporeal on the Material Plane. A mani-
