GHOUL
fested ghost can be harmed only by other incorporeal crea-
tures, magic weapons, or spells, with a 50% chance to ignore This foul creature appears more or less humanoid, but has mottled,
any damage from a corporeal source. A manifested ghost can decaying flesh drawn tight across clearly visible bones. It is mostly hair-
pass through solid objects at will, and its own attacks pass less and has a carnivore’s sharp teeth. Its eyes burn like hot coals in their
through armor. A manifested ghost always moves silently. sunken sockets.
A manifested ghost can strike with its touch attack or with a
ghost touch weapon (see Ghostly Equipment, below). A mani- Ghouls haunt graveyards, battlefields, and other places rich with
fested ghost remains partially on the Ethereal Plane, where is it the carrion they hunger for. These terrible creatures lurk wherever
not incorporeal. A manifested ghost can be attacked by opponents the stench of death hangs heavy, ready to devour the unwary.
on either the Material Plane or the Ethereal Plane. The ghost’s Ghouls are said to be created upon the death of a living man or
incorporeality helps protect it from foes on the Material Plane, but woman who savored the taste of the flesh of people. This assertion
not from foes on the Ethereal Plane. may or may not be true, but it does explain the disgusting behavior
When a spellcasting ghost is not manifested and is on the Ethe- of these anthropophagous undead. Some believe that anyone of
real Plane, its spells cannot affect targets on the Material Plane, exceptional debauchery and wickedness runs the risk of becoming
but they work normally against ethereal targets. When a spellcast- a ghoul. The transformation from living beings into fell things of
ing ghost manifests, its spells continue to affect ethereal targets the night has warped their minds, making them cunning and feral.
and can affect targets on the Material Plane normally unless the Ghouls speak the languages they spoke in life (usually
spells rely on touch. A manifested ghost’s touch spells don’t work Common).
on nonethereal targets.
A ghost has two home planes, the Material Plane and the COMBAT
Ethereal Plane. It is not considered extraplanar when on either Ghouls try to attack with surprise whenever possible. They strike
of these planes. from behind tombstones and burst from shallow graves.
Telekinesis (Su): A ghost can use telekinesis as a standard action Ghoul Fever (Su): Disease—bite, Fortitude DC 12, incubation
(caster level 12th or equal to the ghost’s HD, whichever is higher). period 1 day, damage 1d3 Con and 1d3 Dex. The save DC is
When a ghost uses this power, it must wait 1d4 rounds before Charisma-based.
using it again. An afflicted humanoid who dies of ghoul fever rises as a ghoul
Special Qualities: A ghost has all the special qualities of the at the next midnight. A humanoid who becomes a ghoul in this
base creature as well as those described below. way retains none of the abilities it possessed in life. It is not under
Rejuvenation (Su): In most cases, it’s difficult to destroy a the control of any other ghouls, but it hungers for the flesh of the
ghost through simple combat: The “destroyed” spirit will often living and behaves like a normal ghoul in all respects. A humanoid
restore itself in 2d4 days. Even the most powerful spells are usu- of 4 Hit Dice or more rises as a ghast, not a ghoul.
ally only temporary solutions. A ghost that would otherwise be Paralysis (Ex): Those hit by a ghoul’s bite or claw attack must
118 destroyed returns to its old haunts with a successful level check succeed on a DC 12 Fortitude save or be paralyzed for 1d4+1
(1d20 + ghost’s HD) against DC 16. As a rule, the only way to get rounds. Elves have immunity to this paralysis. The save DC is
rid of a ghost for sure is to determine the reason for its exis- Charisma-based.

LACEDON cannot be affected again by the same ghast’s stench for 24 hours. A
These cousins of the ghoul have the aquatic subtype. They lurk delay poison orneutralize poison spell removes the effect from a sick-
near hidden reefs or other places where ships are likely to meet ened creature. Creatures with immunity to poison are unaffected,
their end. They have a base land speed of 30 feet and a swim and creatures resistant to poison receive their normal bonus on
speed of 30 feet and are found only in aquatic environments. their saving throws. The save DC is Charisma-based.
