GITHYANKI
Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision, scent
Saves: Fort +7, Ref +8, Will +5 Githyanki, 1st-Level Warrior
Abilities: Str 22, Dex 17, Con 14, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 7 Medium Humanoid (Extraplanar)
Skills: Climb +14, Move Silently +8, Spot +6 Hit Dice: 1d8+2 (6 hp)
Feats: Iron Will, Toughness (2) Initiative: +1
Environment: Warm forests Speed: 20 ft. in breastplate (4 squares); base speed 30 ft.
Organization:Solitary or company (5–8) Armor Class: 16 (+1 Dex, +5 breastplate), touch 11, flat-footed 15
Challenge Rating: 6 Base Attack/Grapple: +1/+2
Treasure: None Attack: Masterwork greatsword +4 melee (2d6+1/19–20) or
Alignment: Always neutral composite longbow (+1 Str bonus) +2 ranged (1d8+1/×3)
Advancement: 8–10 HD (Large); 11–21 HD (Huge) Full Attack: Masterwork greatsword +4 melee (2d6+1/19–20) or GITHYANKI
Level Adjustment: — composite longbow (+1 Str bonus) +2 ranged (1d8+1/×3)
Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft.
At first glance, this creature looks like an albino gorilla, but it has four Special Attacks: Psionics
arms. It also has razor-sharp teeth and long claws. Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., psionics, spell resist-
ance 6
Girallons are savage, magical cousins of the gorilla. They are Saves: Fort +4, Ref +1, Will –2
aggressive, bloodthirsty, highly territorial, and incredibly strong. Abilities: Str 13, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 7, Cha 8
When moving on the ground, a girallon walks on its legs and Skills: Craft (armorsmithing or weaponsmithing) +2,
lower arms. An adult girallon is about 8 feet tall, broad-chested, Intimidate +1, Spot +1
and covered in thick, pure white fur. It weighs about 800 pounds. Feats: Weapon Focus (greatsword)
Environment: Astral Plane
COMBAT Organization: Company (2–4 3rd-level fighters), squad
Girallons attack anything that enters their territory, even others (11–20 3rd-level fighters, plus 2 7th-level sergeants, 1 9th-
of their kind. Their senseless belligerence is the one character- level captain, and 1 young red dragon), or regiment (30–100
istic that keeps their numbers in check. Still, the creatures show 3rd-level fighters, plus 1 7th-level sergeant per 10 members,
some cunning. 5 7th-level lieutenants, 3 9th-level captains, 1 16th-level
A solitary girallon usually conceals itself in the branches of a supreme leader, and 1 adult red dragon per 30 members)
tree or under a pile of leaves and brush, with only its nose show- Challenge Rating: 1
ing. When it spots or scents prey, it charges to the attack. A giral- Treasure: Standard
lon picks up prey that is small enough to carry and withdraws, Alignment: Usually evil (any)
often vanishing into the trees before Advancement: By character class
the victim’s companions can do Level Adjustment: +2
anything to retaliate. Against
larger foes, a girallon seeks to This tall, gaunt humanoid has rough, yellow skin and russet hair
tear a single opponent to bits as pulled into a pair of topknots. Its eyes have a sinister gleam, and its
quickly as it can. ears are pointed and serrated in back.
Girallon Githyanki are an ancient line of humanlike beings residing on
the Astral Plane, filling their armories for their next skirmish,
raid, or war.
Githyanki are gaunt, averaging a little over 6 feet tall and typi-
cally weighing around 170 pounds. They enjoy elaborate dress and
baroque armor. In fact, they revere weapons and armor, and it is
not uncommon for a githyanki to show more regard for
panoply of possessions than for its mate.
Rend (Ex): A Like dwarves, githyanki are craftmasters, although they focus
girallon that hits exclusively on items of warfare. Their items are distinctive, and
with two or more claw nongithyanki who acquire them run the risk of immediate retri-
attacks latches onto bution should they encounter githyanki.
the opponent’s body Githyanki speak their own secret tongue, but most also know
and tears the flesh. Common and Draconic.
This attack automati- The statistics block describes a 1st-level warrior. Most gith-
cally deals an extra yanki encountered outside their homes are fighters. However,
2d4+12 points of damage. wizards (called warlocks) and multiclass githyanki (called gish)
Skills: A girallon has a are also found.
+8 racial bonus on Climb
checks and can always COMBAT
choose to take 10 on a Githyanki are seasoned combatants, familiar with the tactical
Climb check, even use of ambush, cover, and psionic sniper attacks from afar.
if rushed or However, they prefer to engage their enemies in hand-to-
threatened. hand combat so they can bring their devastating melee weap-
ons to bear. Githyanki weapons are usually greatswords,
bastard swords, and other particularly large-bladed weap- 127
ons of special githyanki manufacture, all masterwork and
each distinctively decorated and named. Githyanki wizards

direct their powers with pinpoint accuracy to support their GITHYANKI SOCIETY
comrades in melee. In eons past, the mind flayers enslaved entire races, including the
Psionics (Sp): 3/day—daze (DC 9), mage hand. In addition, forerunners of the githyanki. Centuries of captivity bred hatred,
githyanki of 3rd level or higher can use blurthree times per day, nurtured resolve, and finally instilled psionic powers into these
githyanki of 6th level or higher can use dimension door three times slaves. With mental armaments of their own and a powerful
per day, and githyanki of 9th level or higher can use telekinesis leader to rally behind (the legendary Gith), the slaves instigated a
(DC 14) three times per day and plane shift (DC 16) once per cross-planar struggle that, in the end, threw down the mind
day. Effective caster level equals the githyanki’s class levels. The flayer empire, bringing freedom to the surviving slaves. How-
save DCs are Charisma-based. ever, these survivors soon split into the racially distinct githyanki
Spell Resistance (Ex): A and their mortal enemies, the githzerai (see the
githyanki has spell resist- Githzerai entry, below). Each constantly at-
IKNAYHTIG ance equal to its class tempts the extinction of the other. This ani-
levels + 5. mosity has burned through the centuries, warp-
ing the githyanki into the evil, militaristic
The githyanki warrior creatures they are today. Both creatures’ hatred of
presented here had the Githyanki mind flayers knows no bounds, though, and they
following ability scores will break off hostilities to slay illithids if the
before racial adjustments: opportunity presents itself.
Str 13, Dex 11, Con 12, Int Githyanki live within massive fortresses adrift
10, Wis 9, Cha 8. in the Astral Plane. Here they conduct commerce,
Challenge Rating: Gith- manufacture goods, grow food, and live out their
yanki with levels in NPC lives. Family dwellings are nonexistent, since
classes have a CR equal to their most githyanki prefer their own abode; how-
character level. Githyanki with ever, githyanki are often found in groups, honing
levels in PC classes have a CR their fighting skills. A fortress contains noncom-
equal to their character level +1. batants (mostly children) equal to 20% of
the fighting population. Githyanki males
Githyanki Silver Swords and females may be found in almost any
These impressive weapons are role or class.
typically carried by githyanki The githyanki have no deity but instead
combatants of 9th level and pay homage to a lich-queen. A jealous and
higher. Of githyanki make, a paranoid overlord, she devours the
silver sword is a +1 silvered great- essence of any githyanki that rises above
sword that looks much like a 16th level. In addition to eliminating a
standard weapon while still in potential rival, the lich-queen en-
its sheath. But when drawn, the hances her power with the stolen life
silver sword transforms into a col- essence.
umn of silvery liquid, altering the Red Dragon Pact: Githyanki have a racial pact
weapon’s balance round by round as the with red dragons, which sometimes serve githyanki as
blade’s shape flows and shimmers. A silver mounts. Individually, githyanki have a +4 racial bonus on
sword has the additional quality of reaching Diplomacy checks when dealing with red dragons. In
into the minds of the foes it strikes, disrupt- large groups, they can make temporary alliances with
ing their psionic powers. A target hit by the red dragons at the option of the Dungeon Master.
weapon must succeed on a DC 17 Fortitude
save or lose any psionic abilities for 1d4 GITHYANKI AS CHARACTERS
rounds. Most githyanki are fighters. Some of the most powerful
High-level githyanki often take the githyanki warlords are blackguards. Githyanki are never
Improved Sunder feat, using their silver clerics, unless they have forsworn the dreaded lich-
swords to attack astral travelers’ silver cords queen (which is a perilous and ultimately lethal deci-
(see the astral projection spell, page 201 of sion).
the Player’s Handbook). The normally Githyanki characters possess the following racial
insubstantial cord is treated as a tan- traits.
gible object with the owner’s AC, — +2 Dexterity, +2 Constitution, –2 Wisdom.
hardness 10, and 20 hit points. —Medium size.
It is rumored that each githyanki —A githyanki’s base land speed is
warrior has but one silver sword, and if 30 feet.
the weapon is lost or stolen, the —Darkvision out to 60 feet.
githyanki must seek it out at all costs or be —Racial Feats: A githyanki character gains feats
killed by its superiors. That may be only a according to its character class.
legend, but githyanki have been known to exact terrible revenge —Special Attacks (see above): Psionics.
upon those who steal their silver swords or win them in battle. —Special Qualities (see above): Psionics, spell resistance equal
Some silver swords (belonging to particularly high-level to class levels +5.
githyanki) have additional enhancements. Enhancing a silver —Automatic Languages: Githyanki. Bonus Languages: Com-
sword is just like working with any other weapon that has existing mon, Infernal, Draconic, Undercommon.
128 abilities. A normal githyanki silver sword is treated as having a +2 —Favored Class: Fighter.
enhancement for this purpose: +1 for its bonus on attack and —Level adjustment +2.
damage rolls and another +1 for the sword’s antipsionic ability.

Githzerai are a hard-hearted, humanlike people who dwell on
