GITHZERAI SOCIETY
The githzerai forerunners united under the command of the
rebel Gith (see the Githyanki entry, above) and threw down the
plane-spanning empire of the mind flayers. Once free, the
former slaves split ideologically and eventually racially,
becoming the githzerai and their foes, the githyanki. The
githzerai’s history of imprisonment was the founda-
tion of their monastic lifestyle, in which all githz-
erai learn from childhood how to eradicate
potential oppressors and enemies (anyone not a
githzerai).
Githzerai live within self-contained, fortresslike monasteries
hidden deep in the swirling chaos of Limbo. While disorder
rules outside, stability holds sway inside. Each monastery is
ultimately under the control of a sensei, a monk of at least
16th level, and follows a strict schedule of chants, meals, martial
arts training, and devotions, according to a particular sensei’s
philosophy. A monastery contains noncombatants (mostly
children) equal to 15% of the fighting population.
Githzerai males and females may be found in almost
Githzerai any role or class.
Rrakkma: As a special devotion, githzerai sometimes or-
ganize mind flayer hunting parties called rrakkma. A rrakkma
consists of 4–5 githzerai of 8th level and 1–2 of 11th level, mainly
monks, but also containing at least one sorcerer and possibly a 129
rogue. A rrakkma does not return to its home monastery before
slaying at least as many illithids as its membership.

GITHZERAI AS CHARACTERS bears, hobgoblins, ogres, orcs, or trolls) often fall apart when the
Githzerai characters possess the following racial traits. gnolls get hungry. They dislike giants and most other humanoids,
— +6 Dexterity, –2 Intelligence, +2 Wisdom. and they disdain manual labor.
—Medium size. A gnoll is about 7-1/2 feet tall and weighs 300 pounds.
—A githzerai’s base land speed is 30 feet. Gnolls speak Gnoll.
—Darkvision out to 60 feet.
—Racial Feats: A githzerai gains feats according to its character COMBAT
class. Gnolls like to attack when they have the advantage of numbers,
—Special Qualities (see above): Psionics, inertial armor, spell using horde tactics and their physical strength to overwhelm and
resistance equal to class levels + 5. knock down their opponents. They show little discipline when
—Automatic Languages: Githzerai. Bonus Languages: Com- fighting unless they have a strong leader; at such times, they can
mon, Slaad, Undercommon. maintain ranks and fight as a unit. While they do not usually pre-
—Favored Class: Monk. pare traps, they do use ambushes and try to attack from
