GNOLL
favorable conditions when laying am-
Medium Humanoid (Gnoll) bushes (such as darkness, cover, or some
Hit Dice: 2d8+2 (11 hp) other form of advantageous terrain).
Initiative: +0
Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares) GNOLL SOCIETY
Armor Class: 15 (+1 A tribe of gnolls is ruled by its strongest
natural, +2 leather member, who uses fear, intimidation, and
armor, +2 heavy steel strength to remain in power. If a chieftain
shield), touch 10, is killed, the stronger members of the tribe
flat-footed 15 fight to be the new chieftain; if these com-
Base Attack/Grapple: bats take too long or several combatants
+1/+3 die, the tribe may break up into a number
Attack: Battleaxe +3 of bands that go their separate ways. Gnolls
melee (1d8+2/×3) or short- revere the phases of the moon, but most
bow +1 ranged (1d6/×3) tribes have no true clerics.
Full Attack: Battleaxe +3 melee A band or tribe includes as many non-
(1d8+2/×3) or shortbow +1 ranged combatant young as there are adults. Gnoll
(1d6/×3) lairs are fortified surface encampments or
Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft. underground complexes. Gnolls take pris-
Special Attacks: — oners for use as slaves, and any lair will have
Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft. at least one slave for every ten adults. Slaves
Saves: Fort +4, Ref +0, Will +0 (usually humans, orcs, or hobgoblins)
Abilities: Str 15, Dex 10, Con 13, Int 8, Wis suffer a high attrition rate because
11, Cha 8 of the gnolls’ appetite.
Skills: Listen +2, Spot +3 Gnoll Their special patron is the
Feats: Power Attack demon lord Yeenoghu, who
Environment: Warm plains looks like a gaunt gnoll.
Organization:Solitary, pair, hunting party Most gnolls serve and revere
(2–5 and 1–2 hyenas), band (10–100 plus Yeenoghu rather than worshiping a
50% noncombatants plus 1 3rd-level deity.
sergeant per 20 adults and 1
leader of 4th–6th level and 5–8 GNOLL CHARACTERS
hyenas), or tribe (20–200 plus 1 Gnoll leaders are usually rangers. Gnoll clerics usually worship
3rd-level sergeant per 20 adults, Erythnul, deity of slaughter. A gnoll cleric has access to two of
1 or 2 lieutenants of 4th or 5th level, 1 leader of 6th–8th level, the following domains: Chaos, Evil, Trickery, or War (favored
and 7–12 hyenas; underground lairs also have 1–3 trolls) weapon morningstar).
Challenge Rating: 1
Treasure: Standard GNOLLS AS CHARACTERS
Alignment: Usually chaotic evil Relentless hunters, gnoll characters often begin their adventures
Advancement: By character class by tracking a quarry into the world of humankind. There, they
Level Adjustment: +1 take up the role of bounty hunters and mercenaries.
Gnoll characters possess the following racial traits.
This humanoid is slightly taller than a human. It has gray skin, a furry —Strength +4, Constitution +2, Intelligence –2, Charisma –2.
body, and a head like a hyena’s, with a reddish-gray mane. —Size Medium.
—A gnoll’s base land speed is 30 feet.
Gnolls are hyena-headed, evil humanoids that wander in loose —Darkvision out to 60 feet.
tribes. —Racial Hit Dice: A gnoll begins with two levels of humanoid,
Most gnolls have dirty yellow or reddish-brown fur. which provide 2d8 Hit Dice, a base attack bonus of +1, and base
130 A gnoll is a nocturnal carnivore, preferring intelligent creatures saving throw bonuses of Fort +3, Ref +0, and Will +0.
for food because they scream more. Gnolls tend to think with —Racial Skills: A gnoll’s humanoid levels give it skill points
their stomachs, and any alliances they make (usually with bug- equal to 5 × (2 + Int modifier). Its class skills are Listen and Spot.

—Racial Feats: A gnoll’s humanoid levels give it one feat. — +2 racial bonus on saving throws against illusions.
— +1 natural armor bonus. —Add +1 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws against
—Automatic Languages: Gnoll. Bonus Languages: Common, illusion spells cast by gnomes. This adjustment stacks with those
Draconic, Elven, Goblin, Orc. from similar effects, such as the Spell Focus feat.
—Favored Class: Ranger. — +1 racial bonus on attack rolls against kobolds and gobli-
—Level adjustment +1. noids (including goblins, hobgoblins, and bugbears).
— +4 dodge bonus to Armor Class against creatures of the giant
type (such as ogres, trolls, and hill giants).
