GNOME
— +2 racial bonus on Listen checks.
This humanoid stands a little more than half as high as a human. It has — +2 racial bonus on Craft (alchemy) checks.
a compact build, dark tan skin, fair hair, and large eyes. —Automatic Languages: Common, Gnome. Bonus Languages:
Draconic, Dwarven, Elven, Giant, Goblin, Orc.
Gnomes are inveterate explorers, tricksters, and inventors. They —Spell-Like Abilities: 1/day—speak with animals (burrowing GNOME
have a knack for both illusion and alchemy. mammal only, duration 1 minute). A gnome with a Charisma
Gnomes stand 3 to 3-1/2 feet tall and weigh 40 to 45 pounds. score of at least 10 also has the following spell-like abilities:
Their skin color ranges from dark tan to woody brown, their 1/day—dancing lights, ghost sound, prestidigitation. Caster level 1st;
hair is fair, and their eyes can be any shade of blue. Gnome save DC 10 + gnome’s Cha modifier + spell level.
males prefer short, carefully trimmed beards. Gnomes generally —Favored Class: Bard.
wear leather or earth tones, though they
decorate their clothes with intricate The gnome warrior presented here had the following ability
stitching or fine jewelry. Gnomes reach scores before racial adjustments: Str 13, Dex 11, Con 12, Int 10,
adulthood at about age 40, and they live Wis 9, Cha 8.
about 350 years, though some can live
almost 500 years. Rock gnome GNOME SOCIETY
Gnomes are inquisitive. They love to Gnomes get along well with
learn by personal experience. At times dwarves, who share their love of
they’re even reckless. Their curiosity precious things, their curiosity
makes them skilled engineers, as they about mechanical devices, and
are always trying new ways to build their hatred of goblins and
things. Sometimes a gnome pulls a giants. They enjoy the com-
prank just to see how the individuals pany of halflings, especially
involved will react. those who are easygoing
Gnomes speak their own lan- enough to put up with
guage, Gnome. Most gnomes who pranks and jests. Most
travel outside gnome lands (as gnomes are a little suspi-
traders, tinkers, or adventurers) cious of the taller races—
know Common, while warriors in humans, elves, half-elves, and
gnome settlements usually learn half-orcs—but they are rarely
Goblin. hostile or malicious.
Most gnomes encountered Gnomes make their homes in
outside their home are warriors; hilly, wooded lands. They live
the information in the statistics underground but get more fresh
block is for one of 1st level. air than dwarves, enjoying the natu-
ral, living world on the surface when-
COMBAT ever they can. Their homes are well
Gnomes prefer misdirection and hidden, both by clever construction
deception over direct confronta- and illusions. Those who come to visit
tion. They would rather befuddle or and are welcome are ushered into the
embarrass foes (other than gobli- bright, warm burrows. Those who are
noids or kobolds) than kill them. not welcome never find the burrows
Gnomes make heavy use of illusion in the first place.
magic and carefully prepared The chief gnome deity is Garl
ambushes and traps whenever Glittergold, the Watchful Protector.
they can. His clerics teach that gnomes are to
Gnome Traits (Ex): Gnomes possess cherish and support their communi-
the following racial traits. ties. Pranks, for example, are seen as
— +2 Constitution, –2 Strength. ways to lighten spirits and to keep
—Small size. +1 bonus to Armor Class, +1 gnomes humble, not ways for prank-
bonus on attack rolls, +4 bonus sters to triumph over those they trick.
on Hide checks, –4 penalty on
grapple checks, lifting and carrying limits SUBRACES
3/4 those of Medium characters. The information above is for rock
—A gnome’s base land speed is 20 feet. gnomes, the most common variety.
—Low-light vision. There are two other major gnome subraces,
—Weapon Familiarity: Gnomes may treat gnome hooked which differ from rock gnomes as follows. 131
hammers (see Chapter 7 of the Player’s Handbook) as martial weap-
ons rather than exotic weapons.

Gnome, 1st-Level Warrior Svirfneblin,1st-LevelWarrior
SmallHumanoid(Gnome) SmallHumanoid(Gnome)
HitDice: 1d8+2(6hp) 1d8+4(8hp)
Initiative: +0 +1
Speed: 20ft.(4squares) 15ft.inbandedmailarmor(3squares);basespeed20ft.
ArmorClass: 16(+1size,+4chainshirt, 23(+1size,+1Dex,+4dodge,+6bandedmail,+1buckler),
+1lightshield),touch11,flat-footed16 touch16,flat-footed18
BaseAttack/Grapple: +1/–3 +1/–3
Attack: Longsword+2melee(1d6/19–20)or Heavypick+2melee(1d4/×4)orlightcrossbow+3ranged
lightcrossbow+3ranged(1d6/19–20) (1d6/19–20)
FullAttack: Longsword+2melee(1d6/19–20)or Heavypick+2melee(1d4/×4)orlightcrossbow+3ranged
lightcrossbow+3ranged(1d6/19–20) (1d6/19–20)
EMONG Space/Reach: 5ft./5ft. 5ft./5ft.
SpecialAttacks: — Spell-likeabilities
SpecialQualities: Gnometraits Gnometraits,svirfneblintraits,spellresistance12
Saves: Fort+4,Ref+0,Will–1 Fort+5,Ref+3,Will+2
Abilities: Str11,Dex11,Con14,Int10,Wis9,Cha8 Str11,Dex13,Con12,Int10,Wis11,Cha4
Skills: Hide+3,Listen+1,Spot+1 Hide+2,Listen+2,Spot+2
Feats: WeaponFocus(lightcrossbow) Toughness
Environment: Temperatehills Underground
(Forestgnomes:Temperateforests)
Organization: Company(2–4),squad(11–20plus1leader Company(2–4),squad(11–20plus1leader
of3rd–6thleveland23rd-levellieutenants), of3rd–6thleveland23rd-levellieutenants),
orband(30–50plus13rd-levelsergeantper orband(30–50plus13rd-levelsergeantper
20adults,55th-levellieutenants,37th-level 20adults,55th-levellieutenants,37th-level
captains,and2–5direbadgers) captains,and2–5Mediumearthelementals)
ChallengeRating: 1/2 1
Treasure: Standard Standard
Alignment: Usuallyneutralgood Usuallyneutral
Advancement: Bycharacterclass Bycharacterclass
LevelAdjustment: +0 +3
Svirfneblin —Automatic Languages: Undercommon, Gnome, Common.
This humanoid stands a little more than half as tall as a human. It has a Bonus Languages: Dwarven, Elven, Giant, Goblin, Orc, Terran. This
wiry, gnarled physique, stone-colored skin, and large gray eyes. It is bald. trait replaces the rock gnome’s automatic and bonus languages.
—Spell-Like Abilities: 1/day—blindness/deafness (typical save
Also called deep gnomes, svirfneblin are said to dwell in great DC 13), blur, disguise self. Caster level equals the svirfneblin’s class
cities deep underground. They keep the location of these cities levels. The save DC is Charisma-based and include a +4 racial mod-
secret to protect them from their deadly foes: drow, kuo-toa, and ifier. This trait replaces the rock gnome’s spell-like abilities.
mind flayers. —Nondetection (Su): A svirfneblin has a continuous nondetec-
A svirfneblin has wiry, rock-colored skin usually medium tion ability as the spell (caster level equal to class levels).
brown to brownish gray. Only males are bald; females have stringy — +2 racial bonus on Craft (alchemy) and Listen checks.
gray hair. The average svirfneblin lifespan is 250 years. — +2 racial bonus on Hide checks, which improves to +4 under-
Svirfneblin speak Gnome, Common, and Undercommon. ground.
Svirfneblin Traits (Ex): These traits are in addition to the rock —Favored Class: Rogue.
gnome traits, except where noted. —Level adjustment +3.
— –2 Strength, +2 Dexterity, +2 Wisdom, –4 Charisma. These
adjustments replace the rock gnome’s ability score adjustments. The svirfneblin warrior presented here had the following ability
—Stonecunning: This ability grants deep gnomes a +2 racial bo- scores before racial adjustments: Str 13, Dex 11, Con 12, Int 10,
nus on Search checks to notice unusual stonework. A deep gnome Wis 9, Cha 8.
who merely comes within 10 feet of unusual stonework can make Challenge Rating: Svirfneblin with levels in NPC classes have
a Search check as though actively searching, and can use the a CR equal to their character level. Svirfneblin with levels in PC
Search skill to find stonework traps as a rogue can. A svirfneblin classes have a CR equal to their character level +1.
can also intuit depth, sensing the approximate distance under-
ground as naturally as a human can sense which way is up. Forest Gnome
—Darkvision out to 120 feet and low-light vision. This exceptionally small humanoid has moss-colored skin, dark hair, and
—Spell resistance equal to 11 + class levels. brown eyes.
— +2 racial bonus on all saving throws (figured into the statis-
tics for the character presented here). This trait replaces the rock Shy and elusive, forest gnomes shun contact with other races
gnome’s racial bonus on saving throws against illusions. except when dire emergencies threaten their beloved homes.
—Add +1 to the Difficulty Class for all saving throws against They are the smallest of all the gnomes, averaging 2 to 2-1/2 feet in
illusion spells cast by svirfneblin. This adjustment stacks with height, but look just like regular gnomes except with bark-colored
those from similar effects, such as the Spell Focus feat. or gray-green skin, and eyes that can be brown or green as well as
— +1 racial bonus on attack rolls against kobolds and goblinoids. blue. A very long-lived people, forest gnomes have an average life
132 — +4 dodge bonus to Armor Class against all creatures (figured expectancy of 500 years.
into the statistics for the character presented here). This trait Forest Gnome Traits (Ex): These traits are in addition to the
replaces the rock gnome’s dodge bonus against giants. rock gnome traits, except where noted.

—Pass without Trace (Su): A forest gnome has the innate ability Goblins are small humanoids that many consider little more than
to use pass without trace (self only, as a free action) as the spell cast a nuisance. However, if they are unchecked, their great numbers,
by a druid of the forest gnome’s class levels. rapid reproduction, and evil disposition enable them to overrun
— +1 racial bonus on attack rolls against kobolds, goblinoids, and despoil civilized areas.
orcs, and reptilian humanoids. A goblin stands 3 to 3-1/2 feet tall and weigh 40 to 45 pounds.
—Automatic Languages: Gnome, Elven, Sylvan, and a simple Its eyes are usually dull and glazed, varying in color from red to
language that enables them to communicate on a very basic level yellow. A goblin’s skin color ranges from yellow through any
with forest animals (this replaces the rock gnome’s speak with ani- shade of orange to a deep red; usually all members of a single tribe
mals ability). Bonus Languages: Common, Draconic, Dwarven, are about the same color. Goblins wear clothing of dark leather,
Giant, Goblin, Orc. This trait replaces the rock gnome’s automatic tending toward drab, soiled-looking colors.
and bonus languages. Goblins speak Goblin; those with Intelligence scores of 12 or
— +4 racial bonus on Hide checks, which improves to +8 in a higher also speak Common.
wooded area. Most goblins encountered outside their homes are warriors; the GOBLIN
information in the statistics block is for one of 1st level.
