GRIMLOCK
Griffons are powerful, majestic creatures with the characteris-
tics of both lions and eagles. They hunt all manner of prey but Medium Monstrous Humanoid
favor the flesh of horses above all else. Hit Dice: 2d8+2 (11 hp)
From nose to tail, an adult griffon can measure as much as 8 Initiative: +1
feet. Neither males nor females are endowed with a mane. A pair Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares)
of broad, golden wings emerge from the creature’s back and span Armor Class: 15 (+1 Dex, +4 natural), touch 11, flat-footed 14
25 feet or more. A griffon weighs about 500 pounds. Base Attack/Grapple: +2/+4
Griffons make their homes in high places, swooping down Attack: Battleaxe +4 melee (1d8+3/×3)
with a shrill, eaglelike cry to attack their prey. Although both Full Attack: Battleaxe +4 melee (1d8+3/×3)
aggressive and territorial, they are also intelligent enough to Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft.
avoid obviously powerful enemies. They almost always attack Special Attacks: —
KCOLMIRGsretaW
horses, however, and any who attempt to protect horses from a Special Qualities: Blindsight 40 ft., immunities, scent
hungry griffon often end up on the menu themselves. Saves: Fort +1, Ref +4, Will +2
A griffon cannot speak, but understands Common. Abilities: Str 15, Dex 13, Con 13, Int 10, Wis 8, Cha 6
Skills: Climb +4, Hide +3*, Listen +5, Spot +3
COMBAT Feats: Alertness, TrackB
Griffons prefer to pounce on their prey, either diving to the attack Environment: Underground
or leaping from above. Organization:Gang (2–4), pack (10–20), tribe (10–60 plus 1
Pounce (Ex): If a griffon dives upon or charges a foe, it can leader of 3rd–5th level per 10 adults), or cult (10–80 plus 1
make a full attack, including two rake attacks. leader of 3rd–5th level per 10 adults and 1 mind flayer or
Rake (Ex): Attack bonus +8 melee, damage 1d6+2. medusa)
Skills: Griffons have a +4 racial bonus on Jump and Spot Challenge Rating: 1
checks. Treasure: Standard coins; standard goods (gems only); standard
items
TRAINING A GRIFFON Alignment: Often neutral evil
Although intelligent, a griffon requires training before it can bear a Advancement: By character class
rider in combat. To be trained, a griffon must have a friendly atti- Level Adjustment: +2
tude toward the trainer (this can be achieved through a successful
Diplomacy check). Training a friendly griffon requires six weeks of This muscular humanoid is about as tall as a human. It has thick, gray,
work and a DC 25 Handle Animal check. Riding a griffon requires scaly skin and blank, eyeless eye sockets.
an exotic saddle. A griffon can fight while carrying a rider, but the
rider cannot also attack unless he or she succeeds on a Ride check. Grimlocks are natives of the deep places beneath the earth but
Griffon eggs are worth 3,500 gp apiece on the open market, come to the surface to raid for slaves and pillage. While there,
