GUARDINAL
about 7 feet tall.
Guardinals are a celestial race native to the Each of an avoral’s wings has a small hand at the midpoint.
plane of Elysium. When at home, they are When the wings are folded, these appendages are about where
among the most peaceful of creatures, quick to human hands would be and can do nearly anything hands can do.
laugh and slow to anger. They show a very different An avoral’s visual acuity is virtually unmatched: It can see detail
face when away from Elysium, however—they have on objects up to 10 miles away and is said to be able to discern the
no tolerance for evil and often rove the cosmos looking color of a creature’s eyes at 200 paces.
for evil to confront.
Guardinals speak Celestial, Infernal, and Draconic, but can Combat
speak with almost any creature, thanks to their tongues ability. On the ground, an avoral can lash out with its wings to deliver pun-
Guardinal Traits: A guardinal possesses the following traits ishing blows. However, it prefers to meet its foes in the air, where
(unless otherwise noted in a creature’s entry). it can employ its talons and make full use of its aerial speed and
—Darkvision out to 60 feet and low-light vision. agility. It can’t make wing attacks while flying, however.
—Immunity to electricity and petrification. An avoral’s natural weapons, as well as any weapons it wields,
—Resistance to cold 10 and sonic 10. are treated as good-aligned for the purpose of overcoming damage
—Lay on Hands (Su): As the paladin class feature, except that reduction.
each day, a guardinal can heal an amount of damage equal to its full Spell-Like Abilities: At will—aid, blur (self only), command
normal hit points. (DC 14), detect magic, dimension door, dispel magic, gust of wind (DC
— +4 racial bonus on saves against poison. 15),hold person (DC 16), light, magic circle against evil (self only),
—Speak with Animals (Su): This ability works like speak with magic missile, see invisibility; 3/day—lightning bolt (DC 16). Caster 141
animals (caster level 8th) but is a free action and does not require level 8th. The save DCs are Charisma-based.
sound.

Fear Aura (Su): Once per day an avoral can create an aura of Combat
fear in a 20-foot radius. It is otherwise identical with fearfrom an Leonals like their battles as straightforward as can be. They begin
8th-level caster (save DC 17). The save DC is Charisma-based. with a roar to put their foes off balance, then follow up with a
True Seeing (Su): This ability is identical with true seeing (caster frenzy of claw and bite attacks. They closely coordinate with
level 14th), except that it has personal range and the avoral must others in their pride, watching one another’s flanks and setting up
concentrate for 1 full round before it takes effect. Thereafter the devastating attacks.
ability remains in effect as long as the avoral concentrates on it. A leonal’s natural weapons, as well as any weapons it wields, are
Skills: An avoral’s sharp eyes give it a +8 racial bonus on Spot treated as good-aligned for the purpose of overcoming damage
checks. reduction.
Roar (Su): A leonal can roar up to three times per day. Each roar
LEONAL releases a blast in a 60-foot cone that duplicates the effects of a holy
LANIDRAUG Medium Outsider (Extraplanar, Good, Guardinal) word spell and deals an extra 2d6 points of sonic damage (Fortitude
Hit Dice: 12d8+60 (114 hp) DC 20 negates). The save DC is Charisma-based.
Initiative: +3 Pounce (Ex): If a leonal charges a foe, it can make a full attack,
Speed: 60 ft. (12 squares) including two rake attacks.
Armor Class: 27 (+3 Dex, +14 natural) Avoral Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, a leonal must hit
Base Attack/Grapple: +12/+20 with its bite attack. It can then attempt to start a grap-
Attack: Claw +20 melee (1d6+8) ple as a free action without provoking an attack of
Full Attack: 2 claws +20 melee (1d6+8) and opportunity. If it wins the grapple check, it
bite +15 melee (1d8+4) establishes a hold and can rake.
Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft.
Special Attacks: Roar, pounce, improved
grab, rake 1d6+8, spell-like abilities
Special Qualities: Damage reduction
10/evil and silver, darkvision 60
ft., immunity to electricity and
petrification, lay on hands, low-
light vision, protective aura,
resistance to cold 10 and sonic
10, speak with animals, spell
resistance 28
Saves: Fort +13 (+17 against
poison), Ref +11, Will +10
Abilities: Str 27, Dex 17, Con
20, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 15
Skills: Balance +22,
Concentration +12,
Diplomacy +4, Hide
+22, Intimidate +10,
Jump +35, Knowledge
(any) +17, Listen +17,
Move Silently +22,
Sense Motive +17, Spot Leonal
+17, Survival +17
Feats: Ability Focus
(roar), Dodge, Mobility,
Spring Attack, Track
Environment: Blessed
Fields of Elysium
Organization:Solitary or
pride (4–9)
Challenge Rating: 12
Treasure: No coins; double
goods; standard items
Alignment: Always neutral good
Advancement: 13–18 HD (Medium); 19–36 HD (Large) Rake (Ex): Attack bonus +20 melee, damage 1d6+8.
Level Adjustment: — Spell-Like Abilities: At will—detect thoughts, fireball (DC 15),
hold monster (DC 17), polymorph, wall of force; 3/day—cure critical
This creature looks like a powerful humanoid about 6 feet tall, covered in wounds(DC 16), neutralize poison, remove disease; 1/day—heal(DC
short, golden fur. Its head is leonine in appearance, with a short muzzle 18).Caster level 10th. The save DCs are Charisma-based.
and a lush, dark gold mane. Its arms end in powerful claws, and its mouth —Protective Aura (Su): Against attacks made or effects created
holds rows of long, sharp teeth. by evil creatures, this ability provides a +4 deflection bonus to AC
and a +4 resistance bonus on saving throws to anyone within 20 feet
One of the most powerful guardinal forms, a leonal is every bit as of the leonal. Otherwise, it functions as a magic circle against evil effect
142 regal as a lion of the Material Plane. As a foe, it can be just as terri- and a lesser globe of invulnerability, both with a radius of 20 feet (caster
fying, bellowing mighty roars and slashing with razor-sharp claws. level equals leonal’s HD). (The defensive benefits from the circle are
not included in a leonal’s statistics block.)

Skills: Leonals have a +4 racial bonus on Balance, Hide, and Combat
Move Silently checks. Though physically powerful, these hags do not favor simple
assaults but try to divide and confuse their foes before combat.
They love to pose as commoners or gentlefolk to lull their victims
