HALF-ORCS
These orc–human crossbreeds can be found in
either orc or human society (where their
status varies according to local senti-
ments), or in communities of their
own. Half-orcs usually inherit a
good blend of the physical char-
acteristics of their parents. They
are as tall as humans and a little
heavier, thanks to their muscle.
They have greenish pigmenta-
tion, sloping foreheads, jutting jaws,
prominent teeth, and coarse body hair.
Half-orcs who have lived among or
near orcs have scars, in keeping with
orcish tradition.
Half-Orc Traits (Ex): Half-orcs possess
the following racial traits.
— +2 Strength, –2 Intelligence, –2 Charisma.
—Medium size.
—A half-orc’s base land speed is 30
204 feet.
—Darkvision: Half-orcs can see in the
dark up to 60 feet.

Otyughs are grotesque subterranean monsters that lurk within Challenge Rating: 3
heaps of refuse. Although primarily scavengers that can eat almost Treasure: None
any kind of refuse, they never object to a meal of fresh meat when Alignment: Usually neutral good
the opportunity presents itself. Advancement: 5–8 HD (Large); 9–12 HD (Huge)
An otyugh spend most of its time within its lair, which it keeps Level Adjustment: +2 (cohort)
filled with carrion, offal, and all manner of similar trash. An
otyugh usually covers itself with this vile stuff, leaving only its Giant owls are nocturnal birds of prey, feared for their ability to
sensory stalk exposed (the stack also carries the otyugh’s olfactory hunt and attack in near silence. They are intelligent, and though
organ) and lies there for hours, shoveling food into its mouth. naturally suspicious, sometimes associate with good creatures.
Intelligent subterranean beings sometimes coexist with otyughs, They attack creatures that appear threatening, especially those
which they regard as convenient garbage disposals: They dump intent on raiding the owls’ nest for eggs or fledglings, which fetch
their refuse in the lair of the otyugh, which generally refrains a handsome price in many civilized areas. Young owls can be OWL,
from attacking them. trained and are prized as aerial mounts.
A typical otyugh has a body 8 feet in diameter and weighs about A typical giant owl stands about 9 feet tall, has a wingspan of up
500 pounds. to 20 feet, and resembles its smaller cousins in nearly every way GIANT
Otyughs speak Common. except size.
Giant owls speak Common and Sylvan.
