HALF-FIEND
A fiend’s magical nature allows it to breed
with virtually any creature. Spawned deep
in the dark, nether planes, these fiendish
offspring are abominations that
plague mortal creatures.
Demons and devils bring
their progeny along to the
Material Plane and loose
them upon the world.
Sometimes, however,
fiends force themselves on mortal creatures
to create evil half-breeds. The more depraved
creatures are sometimes even willing to partic-
ipate. Although half-fiend offspring are usually Half-fiend
destroyed at birth, some survive to become
grotesque mockeries of their mortal par-
ents. All too rarely, though, one learns
from and takes on the characteristics of its 147
nonfiendish parent, turning from its evil heritage.

Special Qualities: Damage reduction 5/magic, darkvision 60 ft., bite as a natural secondary attack. If it has a hand free, it uses a
immunity to poison, resistance to acid 10, cold 10, electricity claw as an additional natural secondary attack.
10, and fire 10, spell resistance 17 Damage: Half-fiends have bite and claw attacks. If the base
Saves: Fort +7, Ref +5, Will +9 creature does not have these attack forms, use the damage values
Abilities: Str 18, Dex 17, Con 14, Int 12, Wis 18, Cha 12 in the table below. Otherwise, use the values below or the base
Skills: Concentration +12, Diplomacy +6, Knowledge (arcana) creature’s damage values, whichever are greater.
+6, Knowledge (religion) +6, Heal +9, Spellcraft +3, Spot +9 Bite Claw
Feats: Combat Casting, Extra Turning, Flyby Attack, Improved Size Damage Damage
Initiative, Weapon Focus (morningstar)B Fine 1 —
Environment: Temperate plains Diminutive 1d2 1
Organization:Solitary Tiny 1d3 1d2
DNEIF-FLAH Challenge Rating: 9 Small 1d4 1d3
Treasure: Double standard Medium 1d6 1d4
Alignment: Always evil (any) Large 1d8 1d6
Advancement: By character class Huge 2d6 1d8
Level Adjustment: +4 Gargantuan 3d6 2d6
Colossal 4d6 3d6
Half-fiend spellcasters such as the one described here are usually Special Attacks: A half-fiend retains all the special attacks of
found as the leaders of dark cults or evil temples. the base creature and gains the following special attack.
Smite Good (Su): Once per day the creature can make a normal
Combat melee attack to deal extra damage equal to its HD (maximum of
Half-fiends attack with aggressiveness and battle lust, using their +20) against a good foe.
ability to fly to best advantage by casting spells from the air. They Spell-Like Abilities: A half-fiend with an Intelligence or Wis-
enjoy torturing any enemies unfortunate enough to fall into their dom score of 8 or higher has spell-like abilities depending on its
hands. Hit Dice, as indicated on the table below. The abilities are cumula-
Smite Good (Su): Once per day this half-fiend can make a tive; a half-fiend with 4 HD can use darkness as well as desecrate.
normal melee attack to deal 7 points of extra damage against a Unless otherwise noted, an ability is usable once per day. Caster
good foe. level equals the creature’s HD, and the save DC is Charisma-based.
Spell-Like Abilities: 3/day—darkness,poison(DC 15); 1/day— HD Abilities
desecrate,unholy blight (DC 15). Caster level 7th. The save DCs are 1–2 Darkness3/day
Charisma-based. 3–4 Desecrate
Typical leric Spells Prepared (6/6/5/4/3; save DC 14 + spell level): 5–6 Unholy blight
0—cure minor wounds, detect magic, guidance, light, read magic, resist- 7–8 Poison3/day
ance; 1st—command, cure light wounds, divine favor, doom, protection 9–10 Contagion
from good , shield of faith; 2nd—bear’s endurance, bull’s strength, hold 11–12 Blasphemy
person, sound burst, spiritual weapon ; 3rd—bestow curse, cure serious 13–14 Unholy aura 3/day, unhallow
wounds, dispel magic, magic vestment ; 4th—cure critical wounds, 15–16 Horrid wilting
summon monster , unholy blight . 17–18 Summon monster IX (fiends only)
*Domain spell. Deity: Erythnul. Domains: Evil (cast evil spells 19–20 Destruction
at +1 caster level) and War (Weapon Focus bonus feat). Special Qualities: A half-fiend has all the special qualities of
Possessions: +2 breastplate, +1 large steel shield, +1 morningstar, periapt the base creature, plus the following special qualities.
of Wisdom +2, potion of haste. (Different half-fiends may have differ- —Darkvision out to 60 feet.
ent possessions.) —Immunity to poison.
—Resistance to acid 10, cold 10, electricity 10, and fire 10.
CREATING A HALF-FIEND —Damage reduction: 5/magic (if HD 11 or less) or 10/magic (if
“Half-fiend” is an inherited template that can be added to any HD 12 or more).
living, corporeal creature with an Intelligence score of 4 or more —A half-fiend’s natural weapons are treated as magic weapons
and nongood alignment (referred to hereafter as the base crea- for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction.
ture). —Spell resistance equal to creature’s HD + 10 (maximum 35).
A half-fiend uses all the base creature’s statistics and special abil- Abilities: Increase from the base creature as follows: Str +4,
ities except as noted here. Dex +4, Con +2, Int +4, Cha +2.
Size and Type: The creature’s type changes to outsider. Do not Skills: A half-fiend gains skill points as an outsider and has skill
recalculate Hit Dice, base attack bonus, or saves. Size is un- points equal to (8 + Int modifier) × (HD + 3). Do not include Hit
changed. Half-fiends are normally native outsiders. Dice from class levels in this calculation—the half-fiend gains
Speed: A half-fiend has bat wings. Unless the base creature has outsider skill points only for its racial Hit Dice, and gains the
a better fly speed, the creature can fly at the base creature’s base normal amount of skill points for its class levels. Treat skills from
land speed (average maneuverability). the base creature’s list as class skills, and other skills as cross-class.
Armor Class: Natural armor improves by +1 (this stacks with Challenge Rating: HD 4 or less, as base creature +1; HD 5 to
any natural armor bonus the base creature has). 10, as base creature +2; HD 11 or more, as base creature +3.
Attack: A half-fiend has two claw attacks and a bite attack, and Alignment: Always evil (any).
the claws are the primary natural weapon. If the base creature can Level Adjustment: +4.
use weapons, the half-fiend retains this ability. A half-fiend fight-
ing without weapons uses a claw when making an attack action. HALF-FIEND CHARACTERS
When it has a weapon, it usually uses the weapon instead. Humanoid half-fiends often have a character class, preferring
148 Full Attack: A half-fiend fighting without weapons uses both cleric, fighter, rogue, and sorcerer. Rogues and fighters frequently
claws and its bite when making a full attack. If armed with a take levels in the assassin and blackguard prestige classes, respec-
weapon, it usually uses the weapon as its primary attack and its tively. Nonhumanoids are also sometimes clerics or sorcerers.

Half-fiend clerics serve evil deities such as Erythnul, Gruumsh, Halfling Traits (Ex): Halflings possess the following racial
Hextor, Nerull, and Vecna. traits.
— +2 Dexterity, –2 Strength.
—Small size. +1 bonus to Armor Class, +1 bonus on attack rolls,
