HALFLING
Base Attack/Grapple: +1/–3 slings.
Attack: Longsword +3 melee (1d6/19–20) or light crossbow +3 — +2 racial bonus on Listen checks.
ranged (1d6/19–20) —Automatic Languages: Common, Halfling. Bonus Languages:
Full Attack: Longsword +3 melee (1d6/19–20) or light crossbow Dwarven, Elven, Gnome, Goblin, Orc.
+3 ranged (1d6/19–20) —Favored Class: Rogue.
Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft.
Special Attacks: Halfling traits The halfling warrior presented here had the following ability
Special Qualities: Halfling traits scores before racial adjustments: Str 13, Dex 11, Con 12, Int 10,
Saves: Fort +4, Ref +2, Will +0 Wis 9, Cha 8.
Abilities: Str 11, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 9, Cha 8
Skills: Climb +2, Hide +4, Jump –4, Listen +3, Move Silently +1 HALFLING SOCIETY
Feats: Weapon Focus (longsword) Halflings try to get along with everyone else. They are adept at fit-
Environment: Warm plains ting into communities of humans, dwarves, elves, or gnomes and
(Deep halfling: Warm hills) making themselves valuable and welcome. Since human society
(Tallfellow: Temperate forests) changes more frequently than the societies of the longer-lived
Organization:Company (2–4), squad (11–20 plus 2 3rd-level races, it most frequently offers opportunities to exploit, and half-
sergeants and 1 leader of 3rd–6th level), or band (30–100 plus lings are often found in or around human lands.
100 noncombatants plus 1 3rd-level sergeant per 20 adults, 5 Halflings often form tight-knit communities in human or dwar-
5th-level lieutenants, 3 7th-level captains, 6–10 dogs, and 2–5 ven cities. While they work readily with others, they often make
riding dogs) friends only among themselves.
Challenge Rating: 1/2 Halflings also settle into secluded
Treasure: Standard places where they set up self-reliant
Alignment: Usually neutral villages.
Advancement: By character class Halfling communities are known to
Level Adjustment: +0 pick up and move en masse to a place
that offers some new opportunity,
This humanoid stands about half as high as such as where a new mine has opened up or
a human. It has an athletic build, ruddy skin, to a land where a devastating
straight black hair, and dark eyes. war has made skilled workers
hard to find. If these opportunities are
Halflings are cunning, resourceful survivors temporary, a community may pick up and
and opportunists who find room for move again once the opportunity is
themselves wherever they can. They gone, or once a better one presents
might be reliable, hard-working citi- itself. If the opportunity is lasting,
zens or thieves just waiting for their the halflings settle and form
big chance. a new village. Some com-
Halflings stand about 3 feet tall and munities, on the other
usually weigh between 30 and 35 hand, take to traveling as a
pounds. They have brown or way of life, driving wagons
black eyes. Halfling men often or guiding boats from place to
have long sideburns, but beards are rare among them Halfling place, with no permanent home.
and mustaches almost unseen. Halflings prefer simple, The chief halfling deity is Yondalla, the Blessed One,
comfortable, and practical clothes. Unlike members of most races, protector of the halflings. Yondalla promises blessings and protec-
they prefer actual comfort to shows of wealth. Halflings reach tion to those who heed her guidance, defend their clans, and cher-
adulthood in their early twenties and generally live into the ish their families.
middle of their second century.
Halflings speak Halfling and Common. SUBRACES
Most halflings encountered outside their home are warriors; The information above is for the lightfoot halfling, the most
the information in the statistics block is for one of 1st level. common halfling variety. There are two other major halfling sub-
races, which differ from lightfoot halflings as follows.
