HALF-
Full Attack: +2 bastard sword +17/+12 melee (1d10+7/19–20) or Lay on Hands (Su): This paladin can cure up to 36 points of
masterwork composite longbow (+4 Str bonus) +11/+6 ranged damage per day.
(1d8+4/×3) Remove Disease (Sp): Half-celestial paladins can use remove disease
Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft. twice per week as a spell like ability (this is the paladin’s class fea-
Special Attacks: Daylight, smite evil, spells, spell-like abilities, ture). A half-celestial also has the ability to use remove disease as a
turn undead 7/day half-celestial spell-like ability (see above).
Special Qualities: Aura of courage, aura of good, damage reduc- Typical Paladin Spells Prepared (2/1; save DC 13 + spell level):
tion 5/magic, darkvision 60 ft., detect evil, divine grace, divine 1st—bless weapon, divine favor; 2nd—bull’s strength.
health, immunity to disease, lay on hands, resistance to acid Possessions: +2 mithral breastplate, +2 large steel shield, +2 bastard
10, cold 10, and electricity 10, remove disease 2/week, spell sword, masterwork composite longbow (+4 Str bonus), 10 silvered
resistance 19, turn undead 7/day arrows, 10 cold iron arrows. (Different half-celestials may have dif-
Saves: Fort +14 (+18 against poison), Ref +8, Will +10 ferent possessions.)
Abilities: Str 20, Dex 12, Con 18, Int 10, Wis 16, Cha 18
Skills: Concentration +13, Diplomacy +13, Ride +11, Spot +7 CREATING A HALF-CELESTIAL
Feats: Exotic Weapon Proficiency (bastard sword), Flyby Attack, “Half-celestial” is an inherited template that can be added to any
Improved Natural Armor, Power Attack, Weapon Focus living, corporeal creature with an Intelligence score of 4 or higher
(bastard sword) and nonevil alignment (referred to hereafter as the base creature).
Environment: Temperate plains A half-celestial uses all the base creature’s statistics and special
Organization: Solitary abilities except as noted here.
Challenge Rating: 11 Size and Type: The creature’s type changes to outsider. Do not
Treasure: Standard recalculate the creature’s Hit Dice, base attack bonus, or saves. Size
Alignment: Always lawful good is unchanged. Half-celestials are normally native outsiders.
Advancement: By character class Speed: A half-celestial has feathered wings and can fly at twice
Level Adjustment: +4 the base creature’s base land speed (good maneuverability). If the
base creature has a fly speed, use that instead.
The half-celestial paladin is a champion of good, a roving knight Armor Class: Natural armor improves by +1 (this stacks with
whose courage in the face of danger is legendary. any natural armor bonus the base creature has).
Special Attacks: A half-celestial retains all the special attacks of
Combat the base creature and also gains the following special abilities.
The half-celestial paladin strives to meet his foes in blade-to-blade Daylight (Su): Half-celestials can use a daylight effect (as the
combat, resorting to flyby attacks only when confronted by a number spell) at will.
of dangerous foes. Against a powerful evil creature, the half-celestial Smite Evil (Su): Once per day a half-celestial can make a normal
paladin readies himself for close combat with his spells and spell-like melee attack to deal extra damage equal to its HD (maximum of
abilities, and then makes good use of his ability to smite evil. +20) against an evil foe.
Daylight (Su): Half-celestials can use daylight (as the spell) at Spell-Like Abilities: A half-celestial with an Intelligence or
will as a standard action. Wisdom score of 8 or higher has two or more spell-like abilities,
Smite Evil (Su): Twice per day, this half-celestial paladin may depending on its Hit Dice, as indicated on the table below. The
attempt to smite evil with one normal melee attack. He adds his +4 abilities are cumulative; a half-celestial wyrmling brass dragon (4
Charisma modifier to his attack roll and deals 9 points of extra HD) can use protection from evil and bless as well as aid and detect evil.
damage (1 per paladin level) if the attack hits. If he accidentally Unless otherwise noted, an ability is usable once per day. Caster
smites a creature that is not evil, the smite has no effect but it is level equals the creature’s HD, and the save DC is Charisma-based.
still used up for that day. HD Abilities
Also, once per day this half-celestial paladin can make a normal 1–2 Protection from evil 3/day, bless
melee attack with no additional bonus to deal 9 points of extra 3–4 Aid, detect evil
damage against an evil foe (this is a benefit of the half-celestial 5–6 Cure serious wounds, neutralize poison
template). 7–8 Holy smite, remove disease
Spell-Like Abilities (Half-Celestial): 3/day—protection from 9–10 Dispel evil
evil; 1/day—aid, bless, cure serious wounds (DC 17), dispel evil (DC 19), 11–12 Holy word
holy smite (DC 18), neutralize poison, remove disease. Caster level 9th. 13–14 Holy aura 3/day, hallow
The save DCs are Charisma-based. 15–16 Mass charm monster
Turn Undead (Su): This paladin turns undead as a 6th-level 17–18 Summon monster IX (celestials only)
cleric. 19–20 Resurrection 145

Special Qualities: A half-celestial has all the special qualities of Abilities: Str 22, Dex 13, Con 18, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 12
the base creature, plus the following special qualities. Skills: Climb +5, Intimidate +4, Jump –1, Listen +3, Spot +4
—Darkvision out to 60 feet. Feats: Exotic Weapon Proficiency (two-bladed sword), Iron Will,
—Immunity to disease. Power Attack,Two Weapon Fighting, Weapon Focus (two-
—Resistance to acid 10, cold 10, and electricity 10. bladed sword), Weapon Specialization (two-bladed sword)
—Damage reduction: 5/magic (if HD 11 or less) or 10/magic (if Environment: Temperate plains
HD 12 or more). Organization: Solitary
—A half-celestial’s natural weapons are treated as magic weap- Challenge Rating: 6
ons for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction. Treasure: Standard
—Spell resistance equal to creature’s HD + 10 (maximum 35). Alignment: Often chaotic evil
— +4 racial bonus on Fortitude saves against poison. Advancement: By character class
Abilities: Increase from the base creature as follows: Str +4, Level Adjustment: +3
NOGARD Dex +2, Con +4, Int +2, Wis +4, Cha +4.
