HOBGOBLIN SOCIETY
skin, feral eyes, and a
flat nose and chin. Hobgoblins are a military breed: They live for war and believe
strongly in strength and martial prowess as the most desirable
Hobgoblins are larger qualities for individuals and leaders alike. A hobgoblin leader is
cousins of goblins. They are likely to be the biggest and strongest in the group, maintaining
far more aggressive and authority by enforcing strict discipline. Hobgoblins are often
organized than their leaders among tribes of goblins and orcs, whom they bully and 153
smaller relatives and wage a perpetual treat as inferiors. Hobgoblin mercenaries sometimes enter the
war with other humanoids, particularly elves. service of wealthy evil humanoids.

Hobgoblin society is organized into tribal bands, each intensely This creature has a vaguely humanoid form. It stands about 18 inches tall
jealous of its reputation and status. Meetings between rival bands and has wings spanning about 2 feet. Its skin looks rough and warty, and
are likely to erupt in violence if the troops are not restrained. Only it has a mouth full of needlelike teeth.
an exceptionally powerful leader can force them to cooperate for
any length of time. Each band has a distinctive battle standard that A homunculus is a miniature servant created by a wizard. These
it carries into combat to inspire, rally, and signal the troops. Hob- creatures are weak combatants but make effective spies, messen-
goblin gangs and warbands are almost exclusively male. Bands and gers, and scouts.
tribes include females who help with defense. Noncombatant hob- A homunculus’s creator determines its precise features.
goblins are children too young to fight effectively. Homunculi are little more than tools designed to carry out
These creatures usually make lairs in places that either boast assigned tasks. They are extensions of their creators, sharing the
SULUCNUMOH natural defenses or can be fortified. Cavern complexes, dungeons, same alignment and basic nature. A homunculus cannot speak,
ruins, and forests are among their favorites. Typical lair defenses but the process of creating one links it telepathically with its cre-
include ditches, fences, gates, guard towers, pit traps, and crude ator. It knows what its master knows and can convey to him or her
catapults or ballistas. everything it sees and hears, out to a distance of 1,500 feet. A
Most hobgoblins revere Maglubiyet, who is also the patron homunculus never travels beyond this range willingly, though it
deity of goblins. can be removed forcibly. If this occurs, the creature does every-
thing in its power to regain contact with its master. An attack that
HOBGOBLIN CHARACTERS destroys a homunculus deals 2d10 points of damage to its master.
Hobgoblin leaders tend to be fighters or fighter/rogues. Hobgob- If the creature’s master is slain, the homunculus also dies, and its
lin clerics worship Maglubiyet. A hobgoblin cleric has access to body swiftly melts away into a pool of ichor.
two of the following domains: Evil, Destruction, or Trickery. Most
hobgoblin spellcasters, however, are adepts. Hobgoblin adepts COMBAT
favor spells that deal damage. Homunculi land on their victims and bite with their venomous
Hobgoblin characters possess the following racial traits. fangs.
— +2 Dexterity, +2 Constitution. Poison (Ex): Injury, Fortitude DC 13, initial damage sleep for 1
—A hobgoblin’s base land speed is 30 feet. minute, secondary damage sleep for another 5d6 minutes. The
—Darkvision out to 60 feet. save DC is Constitution-based and includes a +2 racial bonus.
— +4 racial bonus on Move Silently checks.
—Automatic Languages: Common, Goblin. Bonus Languages: CONSTRUCTION
Draconic, Dwarven, Infernal, Giant, Orc. A homunculus is shaped from a mixture of clay, ashes, mandrake
—Favored Class: Fighter. root, spring water, and one pint of the creator’s own blood. The
—Level adjustment +1. materials cost 50 gp. The creature’s master may assemble the body
or hire someone else to do the job. Creating the body requires a
DC 12 Craft (sculpting) check or a DC 12 Craft (pottery) check.
