IMPROVED NATURAL ARMOR [GENERAL]
Empower and Quicken Spell-Like Ability
The creature’s natural armor is thicker and harder than that of
others of its kind. Spell Caster Level Caster Level
Prerequisites: Natural armor, Con 13. Level to Empower to Quicken
Benefit: The creature’s natural armor bonus increases by 1. 0 4th 8th
Special: A creature can gain this feat multiple times. Each time 1st 6th 10th
the creature takes the feat, its natural armor bonus increases by 2nd 8th 12th
another point. 3rd 10th 14th
4th 12th 16th
IMPROVED NATURAL ATTACK [GENERAL] 5th 14th 18th
The creature’s natural attacks are more dangerous than its size and 6th 16th 20th
type would otherwise dictate. 7th 18th —
Prerequisite: Natural weapon, base attack bonus +4. 8th 20th —
Benefit: Choose one of the creature’s natural attack forms. The 9th — —
damage for this natural weapon increases by one step, as if the
creature’s size had increased by one category: 1d2, 1d3, 1d4, 1d6, SNATCH [GENERAL]
1d8, 2d6, 3d6, 4d6, 6d6, 8d6, 12d6. A weapon or attack that deals The creature can grab opponents much smaller than itself and
1d10 points of damage increases as follows: 1d10, 2d8, 3d8, 4d8, hold them in its mouth or claw.
6d8, 8d8, 12d8. Prerequisite: Size Huge or larger.
Benefits: The creature can choose to start a grapple when it hits
MULTIATTACK [GENERAL] with a claw or bite attack, as though it had the improved grab special
The creature is adept at using all its natural weapons at once. attack. If the creature gets a hold on a creature three or more sizes
Prerequisite: Three or more natural attacks. smaller, it squeezes each round for automatic bite or claw damage. A
Benefit: The creature’s secondary attacks with natural weapons snatched opponent held in the creature’s mouth is not allowed a
take only a –2 penalty. Reflex save against the creature’s breath weapon, if it has one.
Normal: Without this feat, the creature’s secondary attacks The creature can drop a creature it has snatched as a free action
with natural weapons take a –5 penalty. or use a standard action to fling it aside. A flung creature travels
1d6×10 feet, and takes 1d6 points of damage per 10 feet traveled. If
MULTIWEAPON FIGHTING [GENERAL] the creature flings a snatched opponent while flying, the oppo-
A creature with three or more hands can fight with a weapon in nent takes this amount or falling damage, whichever is greater.
each hand. The creature can make one extra attack each round
with each extra weapon. WINGOVER [GENERAL]
Prerequisites: Dex 13, three or more hands. The creature can change direction quickly while flying.
Benefit: Penalties for fighting with multiple weapons are reduced Prerequisite: Fly speed.
by 2 with the primary hand and reduced by 6 with off hands. Benefits: A flying creature with this feat can change direction
Normal: A creature without this feat takes a –6 penalty on quickly once each round as a free action. This feat allows it to turn
attacks made with its primary hand and a –10 penalty on attacks up to 180 degrees regardless of its maneuverability, in addition to
304 made with its off hands. (It has one primary hand, and all the any other turns it is normally allowed. A creature cannot gain alti-
others are off hands.) See Two-Weapon Fighting, page 160 of the tude during a round when it executes a wingover, but it can dive.
Player’s Handbook. The change of direction consumes 10 feet of flying movement.

CHAPTER 7: GLOSSARY attacks). It does not gain the spell-like abilities or supernatural
attacks of its new form.
This chapter provides definitions and descriptions of monster —The creature gains the physical ability scores (Str, Dex, Con)
characteristics. If you come across a term earlier in this book that of its new form. It retains the mental ability scores (Int, Wis, Cha)
you’re not familiar with, this is the place to find out more. of its original form.
—The creature retains its hit points and save bonuses,
Aberration Type:An aberration has a bizarre anatomy, strange although its save modifiers may change due to a change in ability
abilities, an alien mindset, or any combination of the three. scores.
Features:An aberration has the following features. —The creature retains any spellcasting ability it had in its orig-
—d8 Hit Dice. inal form, although it must be able to speak intelligibly to cast
—Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric). spells with verbal components and it must have humanlike hands
—Good Will saves. to cast spells with somatic components. CHAPTER
—Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit —The creature is effectively camouflaged as a creature of its GLOSSARY
Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die. new form, and it gains a +10 bonus on Disguise checks if it uses
Traits: An aberration possesses the following traits (unless oth- this ability to create a disguise.
erwise noted in a creature’s entry).
—Darkvision out to 60 feet. Air Subtype: This subtype usually is used for elementals and
7:
—Proficient with its natural weapons. If generally humanoid in outsiders with a connection to the Elemental Plane Air. Air crea-
form, proficient with all simple weapons and any weapon it is de- tures always have fly speeds and usually have perfect maneuver-
scribed as using. ability (see the section on Movement, page 311).
—Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium, or
heavy) it is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types. Aber- Alignment:This line in a monster entry gives the alignment
rations not indicated as wearing armor are not proficient with that the creature is most likely to have. Every entry includes a
armor. Aberrations are proficient with shields if they are profi- qualifier that indicates how broadly that alignment applies to all
cient with any form of armor. monsters of that kind.
—Aberrations eat, sleep, and breathe. Always: The creature is born with the indicated alignment. The
creature may have a hereditary predisposition to the alignment or
Ability Score Loss (Su):Some attacks reduce the opponent’s come from a plane that predetermines it. It is possible for individ-
score in one or more abilities. This loss can be temporary (ability uals to change alignment, but such individuals are either unique
damage) or permanent (ability drain). or rare exceptions.
Ability Damage:This attack damages an opponent’s ability score. Usually:The majority (more than 50%) of these creatures have
The creature’s descriptive text gives the ability and the amount of the given alignment. This may be due to strong cultural influ-
damage. If an attack that causes ability damage scores a critical hit, ences, or it may be a legacy of the creatures’ origin. For example,
it deals twice the indicated amount of damage (if the damage is most elves inherited their chaotic good alignment from their cre-
expressed as a die range, roll two dice). Ability damage returns at ator, the deity Corellon Larethian.
the rate of 1 point per day for each affected ability. Often:The creature tends toward the given alignment, either by
Ability Drain:This effect permanently reduces a livingoppo- nature or nurture, but not strongly. A plurality (40–50%) of indi-
nent’s ability score when the creature hits with a melee attack. The viduals have the given alignment, but exceptions are common.
creature’s descriptive text gives the ability and the amount
drained. If an attack that causes ability drain scores a critical hit, it Angel Subtype:Angels are a race of celestials, or good out-
drains twice the indicated amount (if the damage is expressed as a siders, native to the good-aligned Outer Planes. In the D&D cos-
die range, roll two dice). Unless otherwise specified in the crea- mology, these planes are the Seven Mounting Heavens of Celestia,
ture’s description, a draining creature gains 5 temporary hit points the Twin Paradises of Bytopia, the Olympian Glades of Arborea,
(10 on a critical hit) whenever it drains an ability score no matter the Blessed Fields of Elysium, and the Wilderness of the Beast-
how many points it drains. Temporary hit points gained in this lands.
fashion last for a maximum of 1 hour. Traits: An angel possesses the following traits (unless otherwise
Some ability drain attacks allow a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 noted in a creature’s entry).
draining creature’s racial HD + draining creature’s Cha modifier; —Darkvision out to 60 feet and low-light vision.
the exact DC is given in the creature’s descriptive text). If no —Immunity to acid, cold, and petrification.
saving throw is mentioned, none is allowed. —Resistance to electricity 10 and fire 10.
— +4 racial bonus on saves against poison.
Alternate Form (Su): A creature with this special quality has —Protective Aura (Su): Against attacks made or effects created
the ability to assume one or more specific alternate forms. This by evil creatures, this ability provides a +4 deflection bonus to AC
ability works much like the polymorph spell, except that the crea- and a +4 resistance bonus on saving throws to anyone within 20
ture is limited to the forms specified, and does not regain any hit feet of the angel. Otherwise, it functions as a magic circle against evil
points for changing its form. Assuming an alternate form results effect and a lesser globe of invulnerability, both with a radius of 20 feet
in the following changes to the creature: (caster level equals angel’s HD). (The defensive benefits from the
—The creature retains the type and subtype of its original form. circle are not included in an angel’s statistics block.)
It gains the size of its new form. —Tongues (Su): All angels can speak with any creature that has
—Thecreature loses the natural weapons, natural armor, move- a language, as though using a tonguesspell (caster level equal to
ment modes, and extraordinary special attacks of its original form. angel’s Hit Dice). This ability is always active.
—The creature gains the natural weapons, natural armor, move-
ment modes, and extraordinary special attacks of its new form. Animal Type:An animal is a living, nonhuman creature, usu-
—The creature retains the special qualities of its original form. ally a vertebrate with no magical abilities and no innate capacity
It does not gain any special qualities of its new form. for language or culture. 305
—The creature retains the spell-like abilities and supernatural Features: An animal has the following features (unless otherwise
attacks of its old form (except for breath weapons and gaze noted in a creature’s entry).

—d8 Hit Dice. —Immunity to fire and poison.
—Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric). —Resistance to acid 10 and cold 10.
—Good Fortitude and Reflex saves (certain animals have dif- —See in Darkness (Su): All baatezu can see perfectly in dark-
ferent good saves). ness of any kind, even that created by a deeper darkness spell.
—Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit —Summon(Sp): Baatezu share the ability to summon others of
Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die. their kind (the success chance and type of baatezu summoned are
Traits:Ananimal possesses the following traits (unless other- noted in each monster description).
wise noted in a creature’s entry). —Telepathy.
—Intelligence score of 1 or 2 (no creature with an Intelligence
score of 3 or higher can be an animal). Blindsense (Ex):Using nonvisual senses, such as acute smell
—Low-light vision. or hearing, a creature with blindsense notices things it cannot see.
:7 —Alignment: Always neutral. The creature usually does not need to make Spot or Listen checks
RETPAHC YRASSOLG —Treasure: None. to pinpoint the location of a creature within range of its blind-
—Proficient with its natural weapons only. A noncombative herbi- sense ability, provided that it has line of effect to that creature. Any
voreuses its natural weapons as a secondary attack. Such attacks are opponent the creature cannot see still has total concealment
made with a –5 penalty on the creature’s attack rolls, and the animal against the creature with blindsense, and the creature still has the
receives only 1/2 its Strength modifier as a damage adjustment. normal miss chance when attacking foes that have concealment.
—Proficient with no armor unless trained for war. Visibility still affects the movement of a creature with blindsense.
—Animals eat, sleep, and breathe. A creature with blindsense is still denied its Dexterity bonus to
Armor Class against attacks from creatures it cannot see.
Aquatic Subtype:These creatures always have swim speeds
and thus can move in water without making Swim checks. An Blindsight (Ex):This ability is similar to blindsense, but is far
aquatic creature can breathe underwater. It cannot also breathe air more discerning. Using nonvisual senses, such as sensitivity to
unless it has the amphibious special quality. vibrations, keen smell, acute hearing, or echolocation, a creature
with blindsight maneuvers and fights as well as a sighted creature.
Archon Subtype: Archons are a race of celestials, or good out- Invisibility, darkness, and most kinds of concealment are irrele-
siders, native to the Seven Mounting Heavens of Celestia. vant, though the creature must have line of effect to a creature or
Traits:Anarchon possesses the following traits (unless other- object to discern that creature or object. The ability’s range is spec-
wise noted in a creature’s entry). ified in the creature’s descriptive text. The creature usually does
—Darkvision out to 60 feet and low-light vision. not need to make Spot or Listen checks to notice creatures within
—Aura of Menace (Su): A righteous aura surrounds archons range of its blindsight ability. Unless noted otherwise, blindsight
that fight or get angry. Any hostile creature within a 20-foot radius is continuous, and the creature need do nothing to use it. Some
of an archon must succeed on a Will save to resist its effects. The forms of blindsight, however, must be triggered as a free action. If
save DC varies with the type of archon, is Charisma-based, and so, this is noted in the creature’s description. If a creature must
includes a +2 racial bonus. Those who fail take a –2 penalty on trigger its blindsight ability, the creature gains the benefits of
attacks, AC, and saves for 24 hours or until they successfully hit blindsight only during its turn.
the archon that generated the aura. A creature that has resisted or
broken the effect cannot be affected again by the same archon’s Breath Weapon (Su):A breath weapon attack usually deals
aura for 24 hours. damage and is often based on some type of energy (such as fire).
—Immunity to electricity and petrification. Such breath weapons allow a Reflex save for half damage (DC 10 +
— +4 racial bonus on saves against poison. 1/2 breathing creature’s racial HD + breathing creature’s Con mod-
—Magic Circle against Evil (Su): A magic circle against evil ifier; the exact DC is given in the creature’s descriptive text). A
effect always surrounds an archon (caster level equals the archon’s creature is immune to its own breath weapon unless otherwise
Hit Dice). (The defensive benefits from the circle are not included noted. Some breath weapons allow a Fortitude save or a Will save
in an archon’s statistics block.) instead of a Reflex save.
—Teleport (Su):Archons can use greater teleport at will, as the
spell (caster level 14th), except that the creature can transport only Change Shape (Su): A creature with this special quality has the
itself and up to 50 pounds of objects. ability to assume the appearance of a specific creature or type of
—Tongues (Su): All archons can speak with any creature that creature (usually a humanoid), but retains most of its own physical
has a language, as though using a tonguesspell (caster level 14th). qualities. A creature cannot change shape to a form more than one
This ability is always active. size category smaller or larger than its original form. Changing
shape results in the following changes to the creature:
Augmented Subtype:A creature receives this subtype when- —Thecreature retains the type and subtype of its original form.
ever something happens to change its original type. Some crea- Itgains the size of its new form.
tures (those with an inherited template) are born with this subtype; —Thecreature loses the natural weapons, movement modes,
others acquire it when they take on an acquired template. The aug- and extraordinary special attacks of its original form.
mented subtype is always paired with the creature’s original type. —Thecreature gains the natural weapons, movement modes,
For example, a wizard’s raven familiar is a magical beast (aug- and extraordinary special attacks of its new form.
mented animal). A creature with the augmented subtype usually —Thecreature retains all other special attacks and qualities of
has the traits of its current type, but the features of its original type. its original form, except for breath weapons and gaze attacks.
For example, a wizard’s raven familiar has an animal’s features and —Thecreature retains the ability scores of its original form.
the traits of a magical beast. —Thecreature retains its hit points and saves.
—Thecreature retains any spellcasting ability it had in its orig-
Baatezu Subtype:Many devils belong to the race of evil out- inal form, although it must be able to speak intelligibly to cast
306 siders known as the baatezu. spells with verbal components and it must have humanlike hands
Traits:A baatezu possesses the following traits (unless otherwise to cast spells with somatic components.
noted in a creature’s entry). —Thecreature is effectively camouflaged as a creature of its

new form, and gains a +10 bonus on Disguise checks if it uses this —Immunity to any effect that requires a Fortitude save (unless
ability to create a disguise. the effect also works on objects, or is harmless).
—Not at risk of death from massive damage (see page 145 of the
Chaotic Subtype:A subtype usually applied only to outsiders Player’s Handbook). Immediately destroyed when reduced to 0 hit
native to the chaotic-aligned Outer Planes. Most creatures that points or less.
have this subtype also have chaotic alignments; however, if their —Since it was never alive, a construct cannot be raised or res-
alignments change they still retain the subtype. Any effect that urrected.
depends on alignment affects a creature with this subtype as if the —Because its body is a mass of unliving matter, a construct is
creature has a chaotic alignment, no matter what its alignment hard to destroy. It gains bonus hit points based on size, as shown
actually is. The creature also suffers effects according to its actual on the following table.
alignment. A creature with the chaotic subtype overcomes Bonus Bonus
damage reduction as if its natural weapons and any weapons it Construct Size Hit Points Construct Size Hit Points CHAPTER
wields were chaotic-aligned (see Damage Reduction, below). Fine — Large 30 GLOSSARY
Diminutive — Huge 40
Class Skills:Any skill in which a monster has acquired at least Tiny — Gargantuan 60
one rank or in which the creature has a racial bonus is considered Small 10 Colossal 80
a class skill for that kind of creature. Some monsters, such as the Medium 20
7:
true dragons, have their class skills explicitly listed. Other mon- —Proficient with its natural weapons only, unless generally
sters’ class skills can be determined from their statistics blocks. humanoid in form, in which case proficient with any weapon
Creatures with a Swim speed always have Swim as a class skill. mentioned in its entry.
Creatures with a Climb speed always have Climb as a class skill. —Proficient with no armor.
Skills listed in an entry merely because of synergy with another —Constructs do not eat, sleep, or breathe.
skill are not class skills. For example, a marilith’s class skills are
Bluff, Concentration, Diplomacy, Hide, Intimidate, Listen, Move Damage Reduction (Ex or Su): A creature with this special
Silently, Search, Sense Motive, Spellcraft, Spot, and Use Magic quality ignores damage from most weapons and natural attacks.
Device. Even though Disguise and Survival are mentioned in the Wounds heal immediately, or the weapon bounces off harmlessly
creature’s statistics block, their presence is exclusively due to the (in either case, the opponent knows the attack was ineffective).
synergy benefit granted by Bluff and Search. The creature takes normal damage from energy attacks (even non-
magical ones), spells, spell-like abilities, and supernatural abilities.
Cold Subtype:A creature with the cold subtype has immunity A certain kind of weapon can sometimes damage the creature nor-
to cold. It has vulnerability to fire, which means it takes half again mally, as noted below.
as much (+50%) damage as normal from fire, regardless of whether The entry indicates the amount of damage ignored (usually 5 to
a saving throw is allowed, or if the save is a success or failure. 15 points) and the type of weapon that negates the ability. For
example, the werewolf’s entry reads “damage reduction 10/silver”:
Constrict (Ex):A creature with this special attack can crush an Each time a foe hits a werewolf with a weapon, the damage dealt
opponent, dealing bludgeoning damage, after making a successful by that attack is reduced by 10 points (to a minimum of 0). How-
grapple check. The amount of damage is given in the creature’s ever, a silvered weapon deals full damage.
entry. If the creature also has the improved grab ability (see page Some monsters are vulnerable to piercing, bludgeoning, or
310), it deals constriction damage in addition to damage dealt by slashing damage. For example, skeletons have damage reduction
the weapon used to grab. 5/bludgeoning. When hit with slashing or piercing weapons, the
damage dealt by each attack is reduced by 5 points, but bludgeon-
Construct Type: A construct is an animated object or artifi- ing weapons deal full damage.
cially constructed creature. Some monsters are vulnerable to certain materials, such as
Features: A construct has the following features. alchemical silver, adamantine, or cold-forged iron. Attacks from
—10-sided Hit Dice. weapons that are not made of the correct material have their
—Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric). damage reduced, even if the weapon has an enhancement bonus.
—No good saving throws. Examples: the werewolf’s damage reduction 10/silver, the iron
—Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit golem’s damage reduction 15/adamantine, and the nymph’s dam-
Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die, if the con- age reduction 10/cold iron.
struct has an Intelligence score. However, most constructs are Some monsters are vulnerable to magic weapons. Any weapon
mindless and gain no skill points or feats. with at least a +1 magical enhancement bonus on attack and dam-
Traits: A construct possesses the following traits (unless other- age rolls overcomes the damage reduction of these monsters. Such
wise noted in a creature’s entry). creatures’ natural weapons (but not their attacks with weapons)
—No Constitution score. are treated as magic weapons for the purpose of overcoming
—Low-light vision. damage reduction. For example, the gargoyle has damage reduc-
—Darkvision out to 60 feet. tion 10/magic and can strike as a magic weapon for the purpose of
—Immunity to all mind-affecting effects (charms, compul- overcoming damage reduction.
sions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects). A few very powerful monsters, such as the solar and the tar-
—Immunity to poison, sleep effects, paralysis, stunning, dis- rasque, are vulnerable only to epic weapons; that is, magic weap-
ease, death effects, and necromancy effects. ons with at least a +6 enhancement bonus. Such creatures’ natural
—Cannot heal damage on their own, but often can be repaired weapons are also treated as epic weapons for the purpose of over-
by exposing them to a certain kind of effect (see the creature’s coming damage reduction.
description for details) or through the use of the Craft Construct Some monsters are vulnerable to chaotic-, evil-, good-, or lawful-
feat (see page 303). A construct with the fast healing special qual- aligned weapons. When a cleric casts align weapon,affected weap-
ity still benefits from that quality. ons might gain one or more of these properties, and certain magic 307
—Not subject to critical hits, nonlethal damage, ability damage, weapons have these properties as well. For example, many tanar’ri
ability drain, fatigue, exhaustion, or energy drain. demons and baatezu devils have damage reduction 10/good, while

many celestials have damage reduction 10/evil. A creature with an Elemental Type:Anelemental is a being composed of one of
alignment subtype (chaotic, evil, good, or lawful) can overcome the four classical elements: air, earth, fire, or water.
this type of damage reduction with its natural weapons and weap- Features: Anelemental has the following features.
ons it wields as if the weapons or natural weapons had an align- —8-sided Hit Dice.
ment (or alignments) that match the subtype(s) of the creature. A —Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric).
bearded devil, for instance, has the evil and lawful subtypes, and —Good saves depend on the element: Fortitude (earth, water)
thus can overcome damage reduction as if its weapons and natural or Reflex (air, fire).
weapons were evil-aligned and lawful-aligned. —Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit
When a damage reduction entry has a dash (–) after the slash, Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die.
no weapon negates the damage reduction. Traits:Anelemental possesses the following traits (unless other-
A few creatures are harmed by more than one kind of weapon. wise noted in a creature’s entry).
:7 The babau demon, for example, has damage reduction 10/cold —Darkvision out to 60 feet.
RETPAHC YRASSOLG iron or good. Either kind of weapon—cold iron or good—over- —Immunity to poison, sleep effects, paralysis, and stunning.
comes its damage reduction. —Not subject to critical hits or flanking.
A few other creatures require combinations of different types of —Unlike most other living creatures, an elemental does not
attacks to overcome their damage reduction. The ghaele eladrin has have a dual nature—its soul and body form one unit. When an ele-
damage reduction 10/evil and cold iron, meaning that a weapon must mental is slain, no soul is set loose. Spells that restore souls to their
be made of cold-forged iron and be evil-aligned in order to overcome bodies, such as raise dead, reincarnate,andresurrection,don’t work on
the ghaele’s damage reduction. A lich has damage reduction 15/bludg- an elemental. It takes a different magical effect, such as limited
eoning and magic, meaning that only bludgeoning weapons with at wish, wish, miracle,ortrue resurrection,to restore it to life.
least a +1 enhancement bonus deal full damage to it. A weapon that —Proficient with natural weapons only, unless generally hu-
falls into one category but not the other is of no help in overcoming manoid in form, in which case proficient with all simple weapons
the creature’s damage reduction—a magic sword or a nonmagical and any weapons mentioned in its entry.
mace is no better at harming a lich than any other weapon. —Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium, or
heavy) that it is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types.
Dragon Type: A dragon is a reptilelike creature, usually Elementals not indicated as wearing armor are not proficient with
winged, with magical or unusual abilities. armor. Elementals are proficient with shields if they are proficient
Features: A dragon has the following features. with any form of armor.
—12-sided Hit Dice. —Elementals do not eat, sleep, or breathe.
—Base attack bonus equal to total Hit Dice (as fighter).
—Good Fortitude, Reflex, and Will saves. Energy Drain (Su): This attack saps a living opponent’s vital
—Skill points equal to (6 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit energy and happens automatically when a melee or ranged attack
Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die. hits. Each successful energy drain bestows one or more negative
Traits:A dragon possesses the following traits (unless otherwise levels (the creature’s description specifies how many). If an attack
noted in the description of a particular kind). that includes an energy drain scores a critical hit, it drains twice
—Darkvision out to 60 feet and low-light vision. the given amount. Unless otherwise specified in the creature’s
—Immunity to magicsleep effects and paralysis effects. description, a draining creature gains 5 temporary hit points (10
—Proficient with its natural weapons only unless humanoid in on a critical hit) for each negative level it bestows on an opponent.
form (or capable of assuming humanoid form), in which case pro- These temporary hit points last for a maximum of 1 hour.
ficient with all simple weapons and any weapons mentioned in its Anaffected opponent takes a –1 penalty on all skill checks and
entry. ability checks, attack rolls, and saving throws, and loses one effective
—Proficient with no armor. level or Hit Die (whenever level is used in a die roll or calculation)
—Dragons eat, sleep, and breathe. for each negative level. A spellcaster loses one spell slot of the high-
est level of spells she can cast and (if applicable) one prepared spell of
Earth Subtype:This subtype usually is used for elementals and that level; this loss persists until the negative level is removed.
outsiders with a connection to the Elemental Plane of Earth. Earth Negative levels remain until 24 hours have passed or until they
creatures usually have burrow speeds, and most earth creatures are removed with a spell, such as restoration. If a negative level is
can burrow through solid rock. not removed before 24 hours have passed, the affected creature
must attempt a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 draining creature’s
Effective Character Level (ECL):This number represents a racial HD + draining creature’s Cha modifier; the exact DC is given
creature’s overall power relative to that of a character from the in the creature’s descriptive text). On a success, the negative level
Player’s Handbook.A creature with an ECL of 10 is roughly equiva- goes away with no harm to the creature. On a failure, the negative
lent to a 10th-level character. A creature’s ECL is the sum of its Hit level goes away, but the creature’s level is also reduced by one. A
Dice (including class levels) and level adjustment. For instance, a separate saving throw is required for each negative level.
minotaur has 6 HD and a +2 level adjustment. It is the equivalent
of an 8th-level character. Environment:This entry in a statistics block describes the
type of climate and terrain where the creature is typically found.
Eladrin Subtype:Eladrins are a race of celestials, or good out- This is a preference, but is not exclusionary. Note that these envi-
siders, native to the the Olympian Glades of Arborea. ronments can also exist in portions of dungeons due to magical
Traits:Aneladrin possesses the following traits (unless other- effects or other supernatural interference, or as features in dun-
wise noted in a creature’s entry). geons or other environment areas. Chapter 5 of the Dungeon
—Darkvision out to 60 feet and low-light vision. Master’s Guidehas details on climate and terrain types.
—Immunity to electricity and petrification.
—Resistance to cold 10 and fire 10. Evil Subtype:A subtype usually applied only to outsiders
308 —Tongues (Su): All eladrins can speak with any creature that native to the evil-aligned Outer Planes. Evil outsiders are also
has a language, as though using a tonguesspell (caster level 14th). called fiends. Most creatures that have this subtype also have evil
This ability is always active. alignments; however, if their alignments change, they still retain

the subtype. Any effect that depends on alignment affects a crea- —Low-light vision.
ture with this subtype as if the creature has an evil alignment, no —Proficient with all simple weapons and any weapons men-
matter what its alignment actually is. The creature also suffers tioned in its entry.
effects according to its actual alignment. A creature with the evil —Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium, or
subtype overcomes damage reduction as if its natural weapons heavy) that it is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types.
and any weapons it wields were evil-aligned (see Damage Reduc- Fey not indicated as wearing armor are not proficient with armor.
tion, above). Fey are proficient with shields if they are proficient with any form
of armor.
Extraplanar Subtype:A subtype applied to any creature when —Fey eat, sleep, and breathe.
it is on a plane other than its native plane. A creature that travels
the planes can gain or lose this subtype as it goes from plane to FireSubtype:A creature with the fire subtype has immunity to
plane. This book assumes that encounters with creatures take fire. It has vulnerability to cold, which means it takes half again as CHAPTER
place on the Material Plane, and every creature whose native plane much (+50%) damage as normal from cold, regardless of whether a GLOSSARY
is not the Material Plane has the extraplanar subtype (but would saving throw is allowed, or if the save is a success or failure.
not have when on its home plane). Every extraplanar creature in
this book has a home plane mentioned in its description. These Flight (Ex or Su): A creature with this ability can cease or
home planes are taken from the Great Wheel cosmology of the resume flight as a free action. If the ability is supernatural, it
7:
D&D game (see Chapter 5 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide). If your becomes ineffective in an antimagic field, and the creature loses
campaign uses a different cosmology, you will need to assign dif- its ability to fly for as long as the antimagic effect persists.
ferent home planes to extraplanar creatures.
Creatures not labeled as extraplanar are natives of the Material Frightful Presence (Ex):This special quality makes a creature’s
Plane, and they gain the extraplanar subtype if they leave the verypresence unsettling to foes. It takes effect automatically
Material Plane. No creature has the extraplanar subtype when it is when the creature performs some sort of dramatic action (such as
on a transitive plane; the transitive planes in the D&D cosmology charging, attacking, or snarling). Opponents within range who
are the Astral Plane, the Ethereal Plane, and the Plane of Shadow. witness the action may become frightened or shaken.
Actions required to trigger the ability are given in the crea-
Fast Healing (Ex):A creature with the fast healing special ture’s descriptive text. The range is usually 30 feet, and the dura-
quality regains hit points at an exceptionally fast rate, usually 1 or tion is usually 5d6 rounds.
more hit points per round, as given in the creature’s entry (for This ability affects only opponents with fewer Hit Dice or levels
example, a vampire has fast healing 5). Except where noted here, than the creature has. An affected opponent can resist the effects
fast healing is just like natural healing (see page 146 of the Player’s with a successful Will save (DC 10 + 1/2 frightful creature’s racial
Handbook). Fast healing does not restore hit points lost from star- HD + frightful creature’s Cha modifier; the exact DC is given in
vation, thirst, or suffocation, and it does not allow a creature to the creature’s descriptive text). An opponent that succeeds on the
regrow lost body parts. Unless otherwise stated, it does not allow saving throw is immune to that same creature’s frightful presence
lost body parts to be reattached. for 24 hours. Frightful presence is a mind-affecting fear effect.
Favored Class:A monster that takes levels in a class (or more Gaze (Su):A gaze special attack takes effect when opponents
than one class) has a favored class, just as player characters do. In look at the creature’s eyes. The attack can have almost any sort of
addition, a monster’s racial Hit Dice also count as a favored class, effect: petrification, death, charm, and so on. The typical range is
in effect: If the monster becomes a multiclass character, neither its 30 feet, but check the creature’s entry for details.
favored class nor its racial Hit Dice count when determining The type of saving throw for a gaze attack varies, but it is usually a
whether the creature takes an experience point penalty. Will or Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 gazing creature’s racial HD +
gazing creature’s Cha modifier; the exact DC is given in the creature’s
Fear (Su or Sp): Fear attacks can have various effects. descriptive text). A successful saving throw negates the effect. A mon-
Fear Aura (Su):The use of this ability is a free action. The aura ster’s gaze attack is described in abbreviated form in its description.
can freeze an opponent (such as a mummy’s despair) or function Each opponent within range of a gaze attack must attempt a
like the fearspell (for example, the aura of a lich). Other effects are saving throw each round at the beginning of his or her turn in the
possible. A fear aura is an area effect. The descriptive text gives the initiative order. Only looking directly at a creature with a gaze
size and kind of area. attack leaves an opponent vulnerable. Opponents can avoid the
Fear Cones (Sp) and Rays (Su): These effects usually work like the need to make the saving throw by not looking at the creature, in
fearspell. one of two ways.
Ifa fear effect allows a saving throw, it is a Will save (DC 10 + Averting Eyes:The opponent avoids looking at the creature’s face,
1/2 fearsome creature’s racial HD + creature’s Cha modifier; the instead looking at its body, watching its shadow, tracking it in a
exact DC is given in the creature’s descriptive text). All fear attacks reflective surface, and so on. Each round, the opponent has a 50%
are mind-affecting fear effects. chance to not need to make a saving throw against the gaze attack.
The creature with the gaze attack, however, gains concealment
Fey Type:A fey is a creature with supernatural abilities and con- against that opponent.
nections to nature or to some other force or place. Fey are usually Wearing a Blindfold: The opponent cannot see the creature at all
human-shaped. (also possible to achieve by turning one’s back on the creature or
Features: A fey has the following features. shutting one’s eyes). The creature with the gaze attack gains total
—6-sided Hit Dice. concealment against the opponent.
—Base attack bonus equal to 1/2 total Hit Dice (as wizard). A creature with a gaze attack can actively gaze as an attack
—Good Reflex and Will saves. action by choosing a target within range. That opponent must
—Skill points equal to (6 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit attempt a saving throw but can try to avoid this as described above.
Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die. Thus, it is possible for an opponent to save against a creature’s gaze 309
Traits:A fey possesses the following traits (unless otherwise twice during the same round, once before the opponent’s action
noted in a creature’s entry). and once during the creature’s turn.

Gazeattacks can affect ethereal opponents. A creature is im- Humanoids with more than 1 Hit Die (for example, gnolls and
mune to gaze attacks of others of its kind unless otherwise noted. bugbears) are the only humanoids who make use of the features of
Allies of a creature with a gaze attack might be affected. All the the humanoid type.
creature’s allies are considered to be averting their eyes from the Features: A humanoid has the following features (unless other-
creature with the gaze attack, and have a 50% chance to not need to wise noted in a creature’s entry).
make a saving throw against the gaze attack each round. The crea- —8-sided Hit Dice, or by character class.
ture also can veil its eyes, thus negating its gaze ability. —Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric).
—Good Reflex saves (usually; a humanoid’s good save varies).
Giant Type:A giant is a humanoid-shaped creature of great —Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit
strength, usually of at least Large size. Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die, or by charac-
Features:A giant has the following features. ter class.
:7 —8-sided Hit Dice. Traits:A humanoid possesses the following traits (unless other-
RETPAHC YRASSOLG —Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric). wise noted in a creature’s entry).
—Good Fortitude saves. —Proficient with all simple weapons, or by character class.
—Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit —Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium, or
Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die. heavy) it is described as wearing, or by character class. If a human-
Traits:A giant possesses the following traits (unless otherwise oid does not have a class and wears armor, it is proficient with that
noted in a creature’s entry). type of armor and all lighter types. Humanoids not indicated as
—Low-light vision. wearing armor are not proficient with armor. Humanoids are pro-
—Proficient with all simple and martial weapons, as well as any ficient with shields if they are proficient with any form of armor.
natural weapons. —Humanoids breathe, eat, and sleep.
—Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium or
heavy) it is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types. Giants Improved Grab (Ex): Ifa creature with this special attack hits
not described as wearing armor are not proficient with armor. with a melee weapon (usually a claw or bite attack), it deals normal
Giants are proficient with shields if they are proficient with any damage and attempts to start a grapple as a free action without pro-
form of armor. voking an attack of opportunity (see Grapple, page 155 of the Player’s
—Giants eat, sleep, and breathe. Handbook). No initial touch attack is required.
Unless otherwise noted, improved grab works only against op-
Goblinoid Subtype:Goblinoids are stealthy humanoids who ponents at least one size category smaller than the creature. The
live by hunting and raiding and who all speak Goblin. creature has the option to conduct the grapple normally, or simply
use the part of its body it used in the improved grab to hold the
Good Subtype:A subtype usually applied only to outsiders opponent. If it chooses to do the latter, it takes a –20 penalty on
native to the good-aligned Outer Planes. Most creatures that have grapple checks, but is not considered grappled itself; the creature
this subtype also have good alignments; however, if their align- does not lose its Dexterity bonus to AC, still threatens an area, and
ments change, they still retain the subtype. Any effect that depends can use its remaining attacks against other opponents.
on alignment affects a creature with this subtype as if the creature A successful hold does not deal any extra damage unless the crea-
has a good alignment, no matter what its alignment actually is. The ture also has the constrict special attack. If the creature does not
creature also suffers effects according to its actual alignment. A constrict, each successful grapple check it makes during successive
creature with the good subtype overcomes damage reduction as if rounds automatically deals the damage indicated for the attack that
its natural weapons and any weapons it wields were good-aligned established the hold. Otherwise, it deals constriction damage as
(see Damage Reduction, above). well (the amount is given in the creature’s descriptive text).
When a creature gets a hold after an improved grab attack, it
Guardinal Subtype:Guardinals are a race of celestials, or good pulls the opponent into its space. This act does not provoke attacks
outsiders, native to the the Blessed Fields of Elysium. of opportunity. It can even move (possibly carrying away the
Traits:A guardinal possesses the following traits (unless other- opponent), provided it can drag the opponent’s weight.
wise noted in a creature’s entry).
—Darkvision out to 60 feet and low-light vision. Incorporeal Subtype:An incorporeal creature has no physical
—Immunity to electricity and petrification. body. It can be harmed only by other incorporeal creatures, magic
—Resistance to cold 10 and sonic 10. weapons or creatures that strike as magic weapons, and spells,
—Lay on Hands (Su): As the paladin class feature, except that spell-like abilities, or supernatural abilities. It is immune to all
each day, a guardinal can heal an amount of damage equal to its full nonmagical attack forms. Even when hit by spells or magic weap-
normal hit points. ons, it has a 50% chance to ignore any damage from a corporeal
— +4 racial bonus on saves against poison. source (except for positive energy, negative energy, force effects
—Speak with Animals (Su): This ability works like speak with such as magic missile,or attacks made with ghost touchweapons).
animals(caster level 8th) but is a free action and does not require Although it is not a magical attack, holy water can affect incorpo-
sound. real undead, but a hit with holy water has a 50% chance of not
affecting an incorporeal creature.
Humanoid Type:A humanoid usually has two arms, two legs, Anincorporeal creature has no natural armor bonus but has a
and one head, or a humanlike torso, arms, and a head. Humanoids deflection bonus equal to its Charisma bonus (always at least +1, even
have few or no supernatural or extraordinary abilities, but most if the creature’s Charisma score does not normally provide a bonus).
can speak and usually have well-developed societies. They usually An incorporeal creature can enter or pass through solid objects,
are Small or Medium. Every humanoid creature also has a subtype, but must remain adjacent to the object’s exterior, and so cannot
such as elf, goblinoid, or reptilian. pass entirely through an object whose space is larger than its own.
Humanoids with 1 Hit Die exchange the features of their hu- Itcan sense the presence of creatures or objects within a square
310 manoid Hit Die for the class features of a PC or NPC class. Human- adjacent to its current location, but enemies have total conceal-
oids of this sort are presented as 1st-level warriors, which means ment (50% miss chance) from an incorporeal creature that is
that they have average combat ability and poor saving throws. inside an object. In order to see farther from the object it is in and

attack normally, the incorporeal creature must emerge. An incor- have supernatural or extraordinary abilities, but sometimes are
poreal creature inside an object has total cover, but when it attacks merely bizarre in appearance or habits.
a creature outside the object it only has cover, so a creature outside Features:A magical beast has the following features.
with a readied action could strike at it as it attacks. An incorporeal —10-sided Hit Dice.
creature cannot pass through a force effect. —Base attack bonus equal to total Hit Dice (as fighter).
Anincorporeal creature’s attacks pass through (ignore) natural —Good Fortitude and Reflex saves.
armor, armor, and shields, although deflection bonuses and force —Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit
effects (such as mage armor) work normally against it. Incorporeal Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die.
creatures pass through and operate in water as easily as they do in Traits:A magical beast possesses the following traits (unless oth-
air. Incorporeal creatures cannot fall or take falling damage. Incor- erwise noted in a creature’s entry).
poreal creatures cannot make trip or grapple attacks, nor can they —Darkvision out to 60 feet and low-light vision.
be tripped or grappled. In fact, they cannot take any physical action —Proficient with its natural weapons only. CHAPTER
that would move or manipulate an opponent or its equipment, nor —Proficient with no armor. GLOSSARY
are they subject to such actions. Incorporeal creatures have no —Magical beasts eat, sleep, and breathe.
weight and do not set off traps that are triggered by weight.
Anincorporeal creature moves silently and cannot be heard Manufactured Weapons: Some monsters employ manufac-
with Listen checks if it doesn’t wish to be. It has no Strength score, tured weapons when they attack. Creatures that use swords, bows,
7:
so its Dexterity modifier applies to both its melee attacks and its spears, and the like follow the same rules as characters, including
ranged attacks. Nonvisual senses, such as scent and blindsight, are those for additional attacks from a high base attack bonus and
either ineffective or only partly effective with regard to incorpo- two-weapon fighting penalties. This category also includes “found
real creatures. Incorporeal creatures have an innate sense of direc- items,” such as rocks and logs, that a creature wields in combat—
tion and can move at full speed even when they cannot see. in essence, any weapon that is not intrinsic to the creature.
Some creatures combine attacks with natural and manufac-
Lawful:A subtype usually applied only to outsiders native to tured weapons when they make a full attack. When they do so, the
the lawful-aligned Outer Planes. Most creatures that have this sub- manufactured weapon attack is considered the primary attack
type also have lawful alignments; however, if their alignments unless the creature’s description indicates otherwise (using the
change, they still retain the subtype. Any effect that depends on manufactured weapon consumes most of the creature’s attention),
alignment affects a creature with this subtype as if the creature has and any natural weapons the creature also uses are considered sec-
a lawful alignment, no matter what its alignment actually is. The ondary natural attacks. These secondary attacks do not interfere
creature also suffers effects according to its actual alignment. A with the primary attack as attacking with an off-hand weapon
creature with the lawful subtype overcomes damage reduction as does, but they take the usual –5 penalty (or –2 with the Multiat-
if its natural weapons and any weapons it wields were lawful- tack feat) for such attacks, even if the natural weapon used is nor-
aligned (see Damage Reduction, above). mally the creature’s primary natural weapon.
Level Adjustment:Certain monsters can used as the basis for Monstrous Humanoid Type: Monstrous humanoids are simi-
interesting, viable player characters. These creatures have a level lar to humanoids, but with monstrous or animalistic features.
adjustment entry, which is a number that is added to the creature’s They often have magical abilities as well.
total Hit Dice to arrive at its effective character level. A creature Features: A monstrous humanoid has the following features.
with multiple special abilities is more powerful as a player charac- —8-sided Hit Dice.
ter than its Hit Dice alone would indicate. For example, a drow elf —Base attack bonus equal to total Hit Dice (as fighter).
has spell resistance, bonuses to its ability scores, and spell-like —Good Reflex and Will saves.
abilities. Its level adjustment of +2 indicates that a 1st-level drow —Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit
wizard is the equivalent of a 3rd-level character. Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die.
Some creatures’ level adjustment entries include the word Traits:A monstrous humanoid possesses the following traits
“(cohort).” Although these creatures may be problematic as PCs, (unless otherwise noted in a creature’s entry).
they make good companions for a character who has taken the —Darkvision out to 60 feet.
Leadership feat. Some other creatures aren’t intended for use as —Proficient with all simple weapons and any weapons men-
PCs or cohorts but can become companions through the use of tioned in its entry.
the Improved Familiar feat. In these cases, the level adjustment —Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium, or
entry is a dash followed by the words “(Improved Familiar).” heavy) it is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types. Mon-
Level adjustment is not the same thing as an adjustment to a strous humanoids not indicated as wearing armor are not profi-
creature’s Challenge Rating because of some special qualities it cient with armor. Monstrous humanoids are proficient with
possesses. Challenge Rating reflects how difficult an opponent is shields if they are proficient with any form of armor.
to fight in a limited number of encounters. Level adjustment —Monstrous humanoids eat, sleep, and breathe.
shows how powerful a creature is as a player character or cohort in
campaign play. For instance, a drow receives a +1 adjustment to its Movement Modes:Creatures may have modes of movement
Challenge Rating to account for its special abilities, indicating other than walking and running. These are natural, not magical,
that it’s tougher in a fight than its Hit Dice would suggest, but its unless specifically noted in a monster description.
level adjustment is +2 to balance its abilities over long-term play. Burrow:A creature with a burrow speed can tunnel through dirt,
but not through rock unless the descriptive text says otherwise.
Low-Light Vision (Ex):A creature with low-light vision can Creatures cannot charge or run while burrowing. Most burrowing
see twice as far as a human in starlight, moonlight, torchlight, and creatures do not leave behind tunnels other creatures can use
similar conditions of shadowy illumination. It retains the ability (either because the material they tunnel through fills in behind
to distinguish color and detail under these conditions. them or because they do not actually dislocate any material when
burrowing); see the individual creature descriptions for details. 311
Magical Beast Type:Magical beasts are similar to animals but Climb:A creature with a climb speed has a +8 racial bonus on all
can have Intelligence scores higher than 2. Magical beasts usually Climb checks. The creature must make a Climb check to climb any

wall or slope with a DC of more than 0, but it always can choose to mary natural weapon uses the creature’s full attack bonus. Attacks
take 10 (see Checks without Rolls, page 65 of the Player’s Handbook), with secondary natural weapons are less effective and are made
even if rushed or threatened while climbing. The creature climbs at with a –5 penalty on the attack roll, no matter how many there are.
the given speed while climbing. If it chooses an accelerated climb (Creatures with the Multiattack feat take only a –2 penalty on sec-
(see the Climb skill, page 69 of the Player’s Handbook), it moves at ondary attacks.) This penalty applies even when the creature
double the given climb speed (or its base land speed, whichever is makes a single attack with the secondary weapon as part of the
lower) and makes a single Climb check at a –5 penalty. Creatures attack action or as an attack of opportunity.
cannot run while climbing. A creature retains its Dexterity bonus Natural weapons have types just as other weapons do. The most
to Armor Class (if any) while climbing, and opponents get no spe- common are summarized below.
cial bonus on their attacks against a climbing creature. Bite:The creature attacks with its mouth, dealing piercing,
Fly:A creature with a fly speed can move through the air at the slashing, and bludgeoning damage.
:7 indicated speed if carrying no more than a light load; see Carrying Claw or Talon:The creature rips with a sharp appendage, dealing
RETPAHC YRASSOLG Capacity, page 161 of the Player’s Handbook. (Note that medium piercing and slashing damage.
armor does not necessarily constitute a medium load.) All fly speeds Gore:The creature spears the opponent with an antler, horn, or
include a parenthetical note indicating maneuverability, as follows: similar appendage, dealing piercing damage.
—Perfect: The creature can perform almost any aerial maneu- Slap or Slam:The creature batters opponents with an appendage,
ver it wishes. It moves through the air as well as a human moves dealing bludgeoning damage.
over smooth ground. Sting:The creature stabs with a stinger, dealing piercing dam-
—Good: The creature is very agile in the air (like a housefly or age. Sting attacks usually deal damage from poison in addition to
a hummingbird), but cannot change direction as readily as those hit point damage.
with perfect maneuverability. Tentacle:The creature flails at opponents with a powerful ten-
—Average: The creature can fly as adroitly as a small bird. tacle, dealing bludgeoning (and sometimes slashing) damage.
—Poor: The creature flies as well as a very large bird.
—Clumsy: The creature can barely maneuver at all. Nonabilities:Some creatures lack certain ability scores. These
A creature that flies can make dive attacks. A dive attack works creatures do not have an ability score of 0—they lack the ability
just like a charge, but the diving creature must move a minimum altogether. The modifier for a nonability is +0. Other effects of
of 30 feet and descend at least 10 feet. It can make only claw or nonabilities are detailed below.
talon attacks, but these deal double damage. A creature can use the Strength:Any creature that can physically manipulate other
run action while flying, provided it flies in a straight line. objects has at least 1 point of Strength.
For more information, see Tactical Aerial Movement, page 20 of A creature with no Strength score can’t exert force, usually be-
the Dungeon Master’s Guide. cause it has no physical body (a spectre, for example) or because it
Swim:A creature with a swim speed can move through water at doesn’t move (a shrieker). The creature automatically fails
its swim speed without making Swim checks. It has a +8 racial Strength checks. If the creature can attack, it applies its Dexterity
bonus on any Swim check to perform some special action or avoid modifier to its base attack bonus instead of a Strength modifier.
a hazard. The creature can always can choose to take 10 on a Swim Dexterity:Any creature that can move has at least 1 point of
check, even if distracted or endangered. The creature can use the Dexterity.
run action while swimming, provided it swims in a straight line. A creature with no Dexterity score can’t move (a shrieker, for
example). If it can perform actions (such as casting spells), it ap-
Native Subtype:A subtype applied only to outsiders. These plies its Intelligence modifier to initiative checks instead of a Dex-
creatures have mortal ancestors or a strong connection to the terity modifier. The creature automatically fails Reflex saves and
Material Plane and can be raised, reincarnated, or resurrectedjust Dexterity checks.
as other living creatures can be. Creatures with this subtype are Constitution:Any living creature has at least 1 point of Constitution.
native to the Material Plane (hence the subtype’s name). A creature with no Constitution has no body (a spectre, for ex-
Unlike true outsiders, native outsiders need to eat and sleep. ample) or no metabolism (a golem). It is immune to any effect that
requires a Fortitude save unless the effect works on objects or is
Natural Weapons:Natural weapons are weapons that are phys- harmless. For example, a zombie is unaffected by any type of
ically a part of a creature. A creature making a melee attack with a poison but is susceptible to a disintegratespell. The creature is also
natural weapon is considered armed and does not provoke attacks immune to ability damage, ability drain, and energy drain, and
of opportunity. Likewise, it threatens any space it can reach. automatically fails Constitution checks. A creature with no Con-
Creatures do not receive additional attacks from a high base at- stitution cannot tire and thus can run indefinitely without tiring
tack bonus when using natural weapons. The number of attacks a (unless the creature’s description says it cannot run).
creature can make with its natural weapons depends on the type Intelligence:Any creature that can think, learn, or remember has
of the attack—generally, a creature can make one bite attack, one at least 1 point of Intelligence.
attack per claw or tentacle, one gore attack, one sting attack, or one A creature with no Intelligence score is mindless, an automaton
slam attack (although Large creatures with arms or armlike limbs operating on simple instincts or programmed instructions. It has
can make a slam attack with each arm). Refer to the individual immunity to mind-affecting effects (charms, compulsions, phan-
monster descriptions. tasms, patterns, and morale effects) and automatically fails Intelli-
Unless otherwise noted, a natural weapon threatens a critical gence checks.
hit on a natural attack roll of 20. Mindless creatures do not gain feats or skills, although they
When a creature has more than one natural weapon, one of may have bonus feats or racial skill bonuses.
them (or sometimes a pair or set of them) is the primary weapon. Wisdom:Any creature that can perceive its environment in any
All the creature’s remaining natural weapons are secondary. fashion has at least 1 point of Wisdom.
The primary weapon is given in the creature’s Attack entry, and Anything with no Wisdom score is an object, not a creature.
the primary weapon or weapons is given first in the creature’s Full Anything without a Wisdom score also has no Charisma score.
312 Attack entry. A creature’s primary natural weapon is its most effec- Charisma: Any creature capable of telling the difference
tive natural attack, usually by virtue of the creature’s physiology, between itself and things that are not itself has at least 1 point of
training, or innate talent with the weapon. An attack with a pri- Charisma.

Anything with no Charisma score is an object, not a creature. resist it with a Fortitude saving throw (the DC is given in the crea-
Anything without a Charisma score also has no Wisdom score. ture’s description). Unlike hold personand similar effects, a paraly-
sis effect does not allow a new save each round. A winged creature
OozeType:Anooze is an amorphous or mutable creature, usu- flying in the air at the time that it is paralyzed cannot flap its wings
ally mindless. and falls. A swimmer can’t swim and may drown.
Features: Anooze has the following features.
—10-sided Hit Dice. Plant Type:This type comprises vegetable creatures. Note that
—Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric). regular plants, such as one finds growing in gardens and fields,
—No good saving throws. lack Wisdom and Charisma scores (see Nonabilities, above) and
—Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit are not creatures, but objects, even though they are alive.
Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die, if the ooze Features:A plant creature has the following features.
has an Intelligence score. However, most oozes are mindless and —8-sided Hit Dice. CHAPTER
gain no skill points or feats. —Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric). GLOSSARY
Traits:Anooze possesses the following traits (unless otherwise —Good Fortitude saves.
noted in a creature’s entry). —Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit
—Mindless: No Intelligence score, and immunity to all mind- Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die, if the plant
affecting effects (charms, compulsions, phantasms, patterns, and creature has an Intelligence score. However, some plant creatures
7:
morale effects). are mindless and gain no skill points or feats.
—Blind (but have the blindsight special quality), with immu- Traits:A plant creature possesses the following traits (unless
nity to gaze attacks, visual effects, illusions, and other attack forms otherwise noted in a creature’s entry).
that rely on sight. —Low-light vision.
—Immunity to poison, sleep effects, paralysis, polymorph, and —Immunity to all mind-affecting effects (charms, compul-
stunning. sions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects).
—Some oozes have the ability to deal acid damage to objects. In —Immunity to poison, sleep effects, paralysis, polymorph, and
such a case, the amount of damage is equal to 10 + 1/2 ooze’s HD + stunning.
ooze’s Con modifier per full round of contact. —Not subject to critical hits.
—Not subject to critical hits or flanking. —Proficient with its natural weapons only.
—Proficient with its natural weapons only. —Proficient with no armor.
—Proficient with no armor. —Plants breathe and eat, but do not sleep.
—Oozes eat and breathe, but do not sleep.
Poison (Ex):Poison attacks deal initial damage, such as ability
Outsider Type:Anoutsider is at least partially composed of the damage (see page 305) or some other effect, to the opponent on a
essence (but not necessarily the material) of some plane other failed Fortitude save. Unless otherwise noted, another saving
than the Material Plane. Some creatures start out as some other throw is required 1 minute later (regardless of the first save’s
type and become outsiders when they attain a higher (or lower) result) to avoid secondary damage. A creature’s descriptive text
state of spiritual existence. provides the details.
Features: Anoutsider has the following features. A creature with a poison attack is immune to its own poison and
—8-sided Hit Dice. the poison of others of its kind.
—Base attack bonus equal to total Hit Dice (as fighter). The Fortitude save DC against a poison attack is equal to 10 +
—Good Fortitude, Reflex, and Will saves. 1/2 poisoning creature’s racial HD + poisoning creature’s Con
—Skill points equal to (8 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit modifier (the exact DC is given in the creature’s descriptive text).
Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die. A successful save avoids (negates) the damage.
Traits:Anoutsider possesses the following traits (unless other-
wise noted in a creature’s entry). Pounce (Ex):When a creature with this special attack makes a
—Darkvision out to 60 feet. charge, it can follow with a full attack—including rake attacks if
—Unlike most other living creatures, an outsider does not have the creature also has the rake ability.
a dual nature—its soul and body form one unit. When an outsider
is slain, no soul is set loose. Spells that restore souls to their bodies, Powerful Charge (Ex):When a creature with this special
such as raise dead, reincarnate,andresurrection,don’t work on an out- attack makes a charge, its attack deals extra damage in addition to
sider. It takes a different magical effect, such as limited wish, wish, the normal benefits and hazards of a charge. The amount of
miracle,ortrue resurrectionto restore it to life. An outsider with the damage from the attack is given in the creature’s description.
native subtype (see page 312) can be raised, reincarnated, or resur-
rected just as other living creatures can be. Psionics (Sp): These are spell-like abilities that a creature gen-
—Proficient with all simple and martial weapons and any erates with the power of its mind. Psionic abilities are usually
weapons mentioned in its entry. usable at will.
—Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium, or
heavy) it is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types. Out- Racial Hit Dice: The Hit Dice a monster has by virtue of what
siders not indicated as wearing armor are not proficient with type of creature it is. Hit Dice gained from taking class levels are
armor. Outsiders are proficient with shields if they are proficient not racial Hit Dice. For example, the mind flayer sorcerer
with any form of armor. described in this book is a 17 HD creature because of its nine
—Outsiders breathe, but do not need to eat or sleep (although levels of sorcerer, but it has 8 racial Hit Dice (the same number as
they can do so if they wish). Native outsiders breathe, eat, and sleep. a typical mind flayer without any class levels).
Paralysis (Ex or Su):This special attack renders the victim Rake (Ex):A creature with this special attack gains extra natu-
immobile. Paralyzed creatures cannot move, speak, or take any ral attacks when it grapples its foe. Normally, a monster can attack 313
physical actions. The creature is rooted to the spot, frozen and with only one of its natural weapons while grappling, but a mon-
helpless. Paralysis works on the body, and a character can usually ster with the rake ability usually gains two additional claw attacks

that it can use only against a grappled foe. Rake attacks are not The creature can detect opponents within 30 feet by sense of
subject to the usual –4 penalty for attacking with a natural weapon smell. If the opponent is upwind, the range increases to 60 feet; if
in a grapple. downwind, it drops to 15 feet. Strong scents, such as smoke or rot-
A monster with the rake ability must begin its turn grappling to ting garbage, can be detected at twice the ranges noted above.
use its rake—it can’t begin a grapple and rake in the same turn. Overpowering scents, such as skunk musk or troglodyte stench,
can be detected at triple normal range.
Ray (Su or Sp): This form of special attack works like a ranged When a creature detects a scent, the exact location of the source
attack (see Aiming a Spell, page 175 of the Player’s Handbook). Hit- is not revealed—only its presence somewhere within range. The
ting with a ray attack requires a successful ranged touch attack creature can take a move action to note the direction of the scent.
roll, ignoring armor, natural armor, and shield and using the crea- Whenever the creature comes within 5 feet of the source, the crea-
ture’s ranged attack bonus. Ray attacks have no range increment. ture pinpoints the source’s location.
:7 The creature’s descriptive text specifies the maximum range, A creature with the Track feat and the scent ability can follow
RETPAHC YRASSOLG effects, and any applicable saving throw. tracks by smell, making a Wisdom (or Survival) check to find or
follow a track. The typical DC for a fresh trail is 10 (no matter what
Regeneration (Ex):A creature with this ability is difficult to kind of surface holds the scent). This DC increases or decreases
kill. Damage dealt to the creature is treated as nonlethal damage. depending on how strong the quarry’s odor is, the number of crea-
The creature automatically heals nonlethal damage at a fixed rate tures, and the age of the trail. For each hour that the trail is cold,
per round, as given in the entry (for example, a troll has regenera- the DC increases by 2. The ability otherwise follows the rules for
tion 5). Certain attack forms, typically fire and acid, deal lethal the Track feat. Creatures tracking by scent ignore the effects of
damage to the creature, which doesn’t go away. The creature’s surface conditions and poor visibility.
descriptive text describes the details.
A regenerating creature that has been rendered unconscious Shapechanger Subtype:A shapechanger has the supernatural
through nonlethal damage can be killed with a coup de grace (see ability to assume one or more alternate forms. Many magical ef-
page 153 of the Player’s Handbook). The attack cannot be of a type fects allow some kind of shape shifting, and not every creature
that automatically converts to nonlethal damage. that can change shapes has the shapechanger subtype.
Attack forms that don’t deal hit point damage (for example, most Traits: A shapechanger possesses the following traits (unless
poisons and disintegration) ignore regeneration. Regeneration also otherwise noted in a creature’s entry).
does not restore hit points lost from starvation, thirst, or suffocation. —Proficient with its natural weapons, with simple weapons,
Regenerating creatures can regrow lost portions of their bodies and with any weapons mentioned in the creature’s description.
and can reattach severed limbs or body parts; details are in the —Proficient with any armor mentioned in the creature’s
creature’s descriptive text. Severed parts that are not reattached description, as well as all lighter forms. If no form of armor is men-
wither and die normally. tioned, the shapechanger is not proficient with armor. A shape-
A creature must have a Constitution score to have the regenera- changer is proficient with shields if it is proficient with any type
tion ability. of armor.
Reptilian Subtype:These creatures are scaly and usually cold- Size:The nine size categories are (in ascending order) Fine,
blooded. The reptilian subtype is only used to describe a set of Diminutive, Tiny, Small, Medium, Large, Huge, Gargantuan, and
humanoid races, not all animals and monsters that are truly reptiles. Colossal. A creature’s size provides a modifier to its Armor Class
and attack bonus, a modifier on grapple checks it attempts, and a
Resistance to Energy (Ex):A creature with this special quality modifier on Hide checks. Table 7–1: Creature Sizes provides a
ignores some damage of the indicated type each time it takes dam- summary of the attributes that apply to each size category.
age of that kind (commonly acid, cold, fire, or electricity). The
entry indicates the amount and type of damage ignored. For Sonic Attacks (Su): Unless otherwise noted, a sonic attack fol-
example, a lillend has resistance to fire 10, so it ignores the first 10 lows the rules for spreads (see Aiming a Spell, page 175 of the
points of fire damage dealt to it anytime it takes fire damage. Player’s Handbook). The range of the spread is measured from the
creature using the sonic attack. Once a sonic attack has taken ef-
Scent (Ex):This special quality allows a creature to detect fect, deafening the subject or stopping its ears does not end the
approaching enemies, sniff out hidden foes, and track by sense of effect. Stopping one’s ears ahead of time allows opponents to avoid
smell. Creatures with the scent ability can identify familiar odors having to make saving throws against mind-affecting sonic
just as humans do familiar sights. attacks, but not other kinds of sonic attacks (such as those that
Table 7–1: Creature Sizes
Size AC/Attack Grapple Hide Space Reach (Tall) Reach (Long)
Category Modifier Modifier Modifier Dimension* Weight** (in squares) (in squares) (in squares)
Fine +8 –16 +16 6 in. or less 1/8 lb. or less 1/2 ft. (1/100) 0 ft. (0) —
Diminutive +4 –12 +12 6 in.–1 ft. 1/8 lb. – 1 lb. 1 ft. (1/25) 0 ft. (0) —
Tiny +2 –8 +8 1 ft.–2 ft. 1 – 8 lb. 2-1/2 ft. (1/4) 0 ft. (0) —
Small +1 –4 +4 2 ft.–4 ft. 8 – 60 lb. 5 ft. (1) 5 ft. (1) —
Medium +0 +0 +0 4 ft.–8 ft. 60 – 500 lb. 5 ft. (1) 5 ft. (1) 5 ft. (1)
Large –1 +4 –4 8 ft.–16 ft. 500 – 4,000 lb. 10 ft. (2 ×2) 10 ft. (2) 5 ft. (1)
Huge –2 +8 –8 16 ft.–32 ft. 2 – 16 tons 15 ft. (3 ×3) 15 ft. (3) 10 ft. (2)
Gargantuan –4 +12 –12 32 ft.–64 ft. 16 – 125 tons 20 ft. (4 ×4) 20 ft. (4) 15 ft. (3)
Colossal –8 +16 –16 64 ft. or more 125 tons or more 30 ft.+ (6 ×6+) 30 ft.+ (6+) 20 ft.+ (4+)
314 *Biped’s height, quadruped’s body length (nose to base of tail).
**Assumes that the creature is roughly as dense as a regular animal. A creature made of stone will weigh considerably more. A gaseous creature
will weigh much less.

deal damage). Stopping one’s ears is a full-round action and Spells:Sometimes a creature can cast arcane or divine spells
requires wax or other soundproof material to stuff into the ears. just as a member of a spellcasting class can (and can activate magic
items accordingly). Such creatures are subject to the same spell-
Special Abilities: A special ability is either extraordinary (Ex), casting rules that characters are, except as follows.
spell-like (Sp), or supernatural (Su). A spellcasting creature that lacks hands or arms can provide any
Extraordinary:Extraordinary abilities are nonmagical, don’t somatic component a spell might require by moving its body. Such
become ineffective in an antimagic field,and are not subject to any a creature also does need material components for its spells. The
effect that disrupts magic. Using an extraordinary ability is a free creature can cast the spell by either touching the required compo-
action unless otherwise noted. nent (but not if the component is in another creature’s possession)
Spell-Like:Spell-like abilities are magical and workjust like or having the required component on its person. Sometimes spell-
spells (though they are not spells and so have no verbal, somatic, casting creatures utilize the Eschew Materials feat to avoid fussing
material, focus, or XP components). They go away in an antimagic with noncostly components. CHAPTER
fieldand are subject to spell resistance if the spell the ability resem- A spellcasting creature is not actually a member of a class unless GLOSSARY
bles or duplicates would be subject to spell resistance. its entry says so, and it does not gain any class abilities. For
A spell-like ability usually has a limit on how often it can be example, a creature that casts arcane spells as a sorcerer cannot
used. A spell-like ability that can be used at will has no use limit. acquire a familiar. A creature with access to cleric spells must pre-
Using a spell-like ability is a standard action unless noted other- pare them in the normal manner and receives domain spells if
7:
wise, and doing so while threatened provokes attacks of opportu- noted, but it does not receive domain granted powers unless it has
nity. It is possible to make a Concentration check to use a spell- at least one level in the cleric class.
like ability defensively and avoid provoking an attack of
opportunity, just as when casting a spell. A spell-like ability can be Summon(Sp):A creature with the summonability can summon
disrupted just as a spell can be. Spell-like abilities cannot be used specific other creatures of its kind much as though casting a
to counterspell, nor can they be counterspelled. summon monsterspell, but it usually has only a limited chance of
For creatures with spell-like abilities, a designated caster level success (as specified in the creature’s entry). Roll d%: On a failure,
defines how difficult it is to dispel their spell-like effects and to no creature answers the summons. Summoned creatures automati-
define any level-dependent variables (such as range and duration) cally return whence they came after 1 hour. A creature that has just
the abilities might have. The creature’s caster level never affects been summoned cannot use its own summon ability for 1 hour.
which spell-like abilities the creature has; sometimes the given Most creatures with the ability to summon do not use it lightly,
caster level is lower than the level a spellcasting character would since it leaves them beholden to the summoned creature. In gen-
need to cast the spell of the same name. If no caster level is speci- eral, they use it only when necessary to save their own lives.
fied, the caster level is equal to the creature’s Hit Dice. Anappropriate spell level is given for each summoning ability
The saving throw (if any) against a spell-like ability is 10 + the for purposes of Concentration checks and attempts to dispel the
level of the spell the ability resembles or duplicates + the creature’s summoned creature. As stated on page 37 of the Dungeon Master’s
Cha modifier. Guide,no experience points are awarded for summoned monsters.
Some spell-like abilities duplicate spells that work differently
when cast by characters of different classes—for example, true see- Swallow Whole (Ex): If a creature with this special attack begins
ing.A monster’s spell-like abilities are presumed to be the sor- its turn with an opponent held in its mouth (see Improved Grab,
cerer/wizard versions. If the spell in question is not a page 310), it can attempt a new grapple check (as though attempting
sorcerer/wizard spell, then default to cleric, druid, bard, paladin, to pin the opponent). If it succeeds, it swallows its prey, and the op-
and ranger, in that order. ponent takes bite damage. Unless otherwise noted, the opponent
Supernatural:Supernatural abilities are magical and go away in can be up to one size category smaller than the swallowing creature.
anantimagic fieldbut are not subject to spell resistance. Supernat- Being swallowed has various consequences, depending on the
ural abilities cannot be dispelled. Using a supernatural ability is a creature doing the swallowing. A swallowed creature is consid-
standard action unless noted otherwise. Supernatural abilities ered to be grappled, while the creature that did the swallowing is
may have a use limit or be usable at will, just like spell-like abili- not. A swallowed creature can try to cut its way free with any light
ties. However, supernatural abilities do not provoke attacks of slashing or piercing weapon (the amount of cutting damage
opportunity and never require Concentration checks. Unless oth- required to get free is noted in the creature description), or it can
erwise noted, a supernatural ability has an effective caster level just try to escape the grapple. The Armor Class of the interior of a
equal to the creature’s Hit Dice. creature that swallows whole is normally 10 + 1/2 its natural
The saving throw (if any) against a supernatural ability is 10 + armor bonus, with no modifiers for size or Dexterity. If the swal-
1/2 the creature’s HD + the creature’s ability modifier (usually lowed creature escapes the grapple, success puts it back in the
Charisma). attacker’s mouth, where it may be bitten or swallowed again.
Spell Immunity (Ex): A creature with spell immunity avoids Swarm Subtype:A swarm is a collection of Fine, Diminutive,
the effects of spells and spell-like abilities that directly affect it. or Tiny creatures that acts as a single creature. A swarm has the
This works exactly like spell resistance, except that it cannot be characteristics of its type, except as noted here. A swarm has a
overcome. Sometimes spell immunity is conditional or applies to single pool of Hit Dice and hit points, a single initiative modifier,
only spells of a certain kind or level. Spells that do not allow spell a single speed, and a single Armor Class. A swarm makes saving
resistance are not affected by spell immunity. throws as a single creature.
A single swarm occupies a square (if it is made up of nonflying
Spell Resistance (Ex): A creature with spell resistance can creatures) or a cube (of flying creatures) 10 feet on a side, but its
avoid the effects of spells and spell-like abilities that directly affect reach is 0 feet, like its component creatures. In order to attack, it
it.To determine if a spell or spell-like ability works against a crea- moves into an opponent’s space, which provokes an attack of
ture with spell resistance, the caster must make a caster level opportunity. It can occupy the same space as a creature of any size,
check (1d20 + caster level). If the result equals or exceeds the crea- since it crawls all over its prey. A swarm can move through squares 315
ture’s spell resistance, the spell works normally, although the crea- occupied by enemies and vice versa without impediment,
ture is still allowed a saving throw. although the swarm provokes an attack of opportunity if it does

so. A swarm can move through cracks or holes large enough for its make attacks of opportunity with their swarm attack. However,
component creatures. they distract foes whose squares they occupy, as described below.
A swarm of Tiny creatures consists of 300 nonflying creatures Distraction (Ex):Any living creature vulnerable to a swarm’s
or 1,000 flying creatures. A swarm of Diminutive creatures con- damage that begins its turn with a swarm in its square is nauseated
sists of 1,500 nonflying creatures or 5,000 flying creatures. A for 1 round; a Fortitude save (DC 10 + 1/2 swarm’s HD + swarm’s
swarm of Fine creatures consists of 10,000 creatures, whether they Con modifier; the exact DC is given in a swarm’s description)
are flying or not. Swarms of nonflying creatures include many negates the effect. Spellcasting or concentrating on spells within
more creatures than could normally fit in a 10-foot square based the area of a swarm requires a Concentration check (DC 20 + spell
on their normal space, because creatures in a swarm are packed level). Using skills that involve patience and concentration re-
tightly together and generally crawl over each other and their prey quires a DC 20 Concentration check.
when moving or attacking. Larger swarms are represented by mul-
:7 tiples of single swarms. (A swarm of 15,000 centipedes is ten cen- Tanar’ri Subtype:Many demons belong to the race of evil out-
RETPAHC YRASSOLG tipede swarms, each swarm occupying a 10-foot square.) The area siders known as the tanar’ri.
occupied by a large swarm is completely shapeable, though the Traits: A tanar’ri possesses the following traits (unless otherwise
swarm usually remains in contiguous squares. noted in a creature’s entry).
Traits: A swarm has no clear front or back and no discernable —Immunity to electricity and poison.
anatomy, so it is not subject to critical hits or flanking. A swarm —Resistance to acid 10, cold 10, and fire 10.
made up of Tiny creatures takes half damage from slashing and —Summon(Sp): Tanar’ri share the ability to summon others of
piercing weapons. A swarm composed of Fine or Diminutive crea- their kind (the success chance and type of tanar’ri summoned are
tures is immune to all weapon damage. noted in each monster description).
Reducing a swarm to 0 hit points or lower causes it to break up, —Telepathy.
though damage taken until that point does not degrade its ability
to attack or resist attack. Swarms are never staggered or reduced to Telepathy (Su):A creature with this ability can communicate
a dying state by damage. Also, they cannot be tripped, grappled, or telepathically with any other creature within a certain range (spec-
bull rushed, and they cannot grapple an opponent. ified in the creature’s entry, usually 100 feet) that has a language. It
A swarm is immune to any spell or effect that targets a specific is possible to address multiple creatures at once telepathically,
number of creatures (including single-target spells such as disinte- although maintaining a telepathic conversation with more than
grate), with the exception of mind-affecting effects (charms, com- one creature at a time is just as difficult as simultaneously speak-
pulsions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects) if the swarm ing and listening to multiple people at the same time.
has an Intelligence score and a hive mind. A swarm takes half Some creatures (such as the pseudodragon) have a limited form
again as much damage (+50%) from spells or effects that affect an of telepathy, while others (such as the formian queen) have a more
area, such as splash weapons and many evocation spells. powerful form of the ability.
Swarms made up of Diminutive or Fine creatures are suscep-
tible to high winds such as that created by a gust of windspell. For Trample (Ex):As a full-round action, a creature with this spe-
purposes of determining the effects of wind on a swarm, treat the cial attack can move up to twice its speed and literally run over any
swarm as a creature of the same size as its constituent creatures opponents at least one size category smaller than itself. The crea-
(see Winds, page 95 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide). For example, a ture merely has to move over the opponents in its path; any crea-
swarm of locusts (a swarm of Diminutive creatures) can be blown ture whose space is completely covered by the trampling crea-
away by a severe wind. Wind effects deal 1d6 points of nonlethal ture’s space is subject to the trample attack.
damage to a swarm per spell level (or Hit Dice of the originating If a target’s space is larger than 5 feet, it is only considered tram-
creature, in the case of effects such as an air elemental’s whirl- pled if the trampling creature moves over all the squares it occu-
wind). A swarm rendered unconscious by means of nonlethal pies. If the trampling creature moves over only some of a target’s
damage becomes disorganized and dispersed, and does not re- space, the target can make an attack of opportunity against the
form until its hit points exceed its nonlethal damage. trampling creature at a –4 penalty. A trampling creature that acci-
Swarm Attack: Creatures with the swarm subtype don’t make dentally ends its movement in an illegal space returns to the last
standard melee attacks. Instead, they deal automatic damage to legal position it occupied, or the closest legal position, if there’s a
any creature whose space they occupy at the end of their move, legal position that’s closer.
with no attack roll needed. Swarm attacks are not subject to a miss A trample attack deals bludgeoning damage (the creature’s slam
chance for concealment or cover. A swarm’s statistics block has damage + 1-1/2 times its Str modifier). The creature’s descriptive
“swarm” in the Attack and Full Attack entries, with no attack text gives the exact amount.
bonus given. The amount of damage a swarm deals is based on its Trampled opponents can attempt attacks of opportunity, but
Hit Dice, as shown below. these take a –4 penalty. If they do not make attacks of opportunity,
trampled opponents can attempt Reflex saves to take half damage.
Swarm HD Swarm Base Damage The save DC against a creature’s trample attack is 10 + 1/2 crea-
1–5 1d6 ture’s HD + creature’s Str modifier (the exact DC is given in the
6–10 2d6 creature’s descriptive text). A trampling creature can only deal
11–15 3d6 trampling damage to each target once per round, no matter how
16–20 4d6 many times its movement takes it over a target creature.
21 or more 5d6
Tremorsense (Ex): A creature with tremorsense is sensitive to
A swarm’s attacks are nonmagical, unless the swarm’s description vibrations in the ground and can automatically pinpoint the loca-
states otherwise. Damage reduction sufficient to reduce a swarm tion of anything that is in contact with the ground. Aquatic crea-
attack’s damage to 0, being incorporeal, and other special abilities tures with tremorsense can also sense the location of creatures
usually give a creature immunity (or at least resistance) to damage moving through water. The ability’s range is specified in the crea-
316 from a swarm. Some swarms also have acid, poison, blood drain, or ture’s descriptive text.
other special attacks in addition to normal damage.
Swarms do not threaten creatures in their square, and do not Treasure:This entry in a monster description describes how

much wealth a creature owns.(See pages 52–56 of the Dungeon creature has an Intelligence score. However, many undead are
Master’s Guidefor details about treasure, particularly Tables 3–5, mindless and gain no skill points or feats.
through 3–8.) In most cases, a creature keeps valuables in its home Traits:An undead creature possesses the following traits (unless
or lair and has no treasure with it when it travels. Intelligent crea- otherwise noted in a creature’s entry).
tures that own useful, portable treasure (such as magic items) tend —No Constitution score.
to carry and use these, leaving bulky items at home. —Darkvision out to 60 feet.
Treasure can include coins, goods, and items. Creatures can —Immunity to all mind-affecting effects (charms, compul-
have varying amounts of each, as follows. sions, phantasms, patterns, and morale effects).
Standard:Refer to Table 3–5 in the Dungeon Master’s Guideand —Immunity to poison, sleep effects, paralysis, stunning, dis-
roll d% once for each type of treasure (Coins, Goods, Items) on the ease, and death effects.
Level section of the table that corresponds to the creature’s Chal- —Not subject to critical hits, nonlethal damage, ability drain, or
lenge Rating (for groups of creatures, use the Encounter Level for energy drain. Immune to damage to its physical ability scores CHAPTER
the encounter instead). (Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution), as well as to fatigue and GLOSSARY
Some creatures have double, triple, or even quadruple standard exhaustion effects.
treasure; in these cases, roll for each type of treasure two, three, or —Cannot heal damage on its own if it has no Intelligence
four times. score, although it can be healed. Negative energy (such as an inflict
None:The creature collects no treasure of its own. spell) can heal undead creatures. The fast healing special quality
7:
Nonstandard:Some creatures have quirks or habits that affect works regardless of the creature’s Intelligence score.
the types of treasure they collect. These creatures use the same —Immunity to any effect that requires a Fortitude save (unless
treasure tables, but with special adjustments. the effect also works on objects or is harmless).
Fractional Coins:Roll on the Coins column in the section corre- —Uses its Charisma modifier for Concentration checks.
sponding to the creature’s Challenge Rating, but divide the result —Not at risk of death from massive damage, but when reduced
as indicated. to 0 hit points or less, it is immediately destroyed.
% Goods or Items:The creature has goods or items only some of —Not affected by raise deadandreincarnatespells or abilities.
the time. Before checking for goods or items, roll d% against the Resurrectionandtrue resurrectioncan affect undead creatures. These
given percentage. On a success, make a normal roll on the appro- spells turn undead creatures back into the living creatures they
priate Goods or Items column (which may still result in no goods werebefore becoming undead.
or items). —Proficient with its natural weapons, all simple weapons, and
Double Goods or Items: Roll twice on the appropriate Goods or any weapons mentioned in its entry.
Items column. —Proficient with whatever type of armor (light, medium, or
Parenthetical Notes:Some entries for goods or items include heavy) it is described as wearing, as well as all lighter types. Un-
notes that limit the types of treasure a creature collects. dead not indicated as wearing armor are not proficient with armor.
When a note includes the word “no,” it means the creature does Undead are proficient with shields if they are proficient with any
not collect or cannot keep that thing. If a random roll generates form of armor.
such a result, treat the result as “none” instead. For example, if a —Undead do not breathe, eat, or sleep.
creature’s “items” entry reads “no flammables,” and a random roll
generates a scroll, the creature instead has no item at all (the scroll Vermin Type:This type includes insects, arachnids, other
burned up, or the creature left it behind). arthropods, worms, and similar invertebrates.
When a note includes the word “only,” the creature goes out of Features: Vermin have the following features.
its way to collect treasure of the indicated type. If an entry for —8-sided Hit Dice.
goods indicates “gems only,” roll on the appropriate Goods column —Base attack bonus equal to 3/4 total Hit Dice (as cleric).
and treat any “art” result as “gems” instead. —Good Fortitude saves.
It’ssometimes necessary to reroll until the right sort of item —Skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit
appears. For example, if a creature’s items entry reads “nonflamma- Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die, if the vermin
bles only,” roll normally on the appropriate Items column. If you has an Intelligence score. However, most vermin are mindless and
get a flammable item, reroll on the same portion of the table until gain no skill points or feats.
you get a nonflammable one. If the table you rolled on contains Traits:Vermin possess the following traits (unless otherwise
only flammable items, back up a step and reroll until you get to a noted in a creature’s entry).
table that can give you an appropriate item. —Mindless: No Intelligence score, and immunity to all mind-
affecting effects (charms, compulsions, phantasms, patterns, and
Turn Resistance (Ex):A creature with this special quality (usu- morale effects).
ally an undead) is less easily affected by clerics or paladins (see —Darkvision out to 60 feet.
Turn or Rebuke Undead, page 159 of the Player’s Handbook). When —Proficient with their natural weapons only.
resolving a turn, rebuke, command, or bolster attempt, add the —Proficient with no armor.
indicated number to the creature’s Hit Dice total. For example, a —Vermin breathe, eat, and sleep.
shadow has 3 Hit Dice and +2 turn resistance. Attempts to turn,
rebuke, command, or bolster treat the shadow as though it had 5 Vulnerability to Energy: Some creatures have vulnerability to
Hit Dice, though it is a 3 HD creature for any other purpose. a certain kind of energy effect (typically either cold or fire). Such
a creature takes half again as much (+50%) damage as normal from
Undead Type:Undead are once-living creatures animated by the effect, regardless of whether a saving throw is allowed, or if the
spiritual or supernatural forces. save is a success or failure.
Features: Anundead creature has the following features.
—12-sided Hit Dice. Water Subtype:This subtype usually is used for elementals
—Base attack bonus equal to 1/2 total Hit Dice (as wizard). and outsiders with a connection to the Elemental Plane of Water.
—Good Will saves. Creatures with the water subtype always have swim speeds and 317
—Skill points equal to (4 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit can move in water without making Swim checks. A water creature
Die, with quadruple skill points for the first Hit Die, if the undead can breathe underwater and usually can breathe air as well.

