INCREASING HIT DICE
the celestial, fiendish, half-celestial, half-dragon, and half-fiend
4:
As its Hit Dice increase, a creature’s attack bonuses and saving templates—all assume the creature was born with the template.
throw modifiers might improve. It gains more feats and skills, It’s possible for a certain kind of template to be of either type.
depending on its type, as shown on Table 4–1. The lycanthrope template, for instance, is inherited for a creature
Saving throw bonuses are given on Table 3–1: Base Save and that was born with the affliction. It can also be acquired by a crea-
Base Attack Bonuses, page 22 of the Player’s Handbook. A “good” ture that is bitten by a natural lycanthrope.
saving throw uses the higher of the listed values.
Note that if a creature acquires a character class, it improves ac- READING A TEMPLATE
cording to its class, not its type. A template’s description provides a set of instructions for altering
See the sidebar on page 292 for an example of how to adjust the an existing creature, known as the base creature.
statistics for a creature whose Hit Dice have been increased. The changes that a template might cause to each line of a creature’s
statistics block are discussed below. Generally, if a template does not
SIZE INCREASES cause a change to a certain statistic, that entry is missing from the
A creature may become larger when its Hit Dice are increased (the template description. For clarity, the entry for a statistic or attribute
new size is noted parenthetically in the monster’s Advancement that is not changed is sometimes given as “Same as the base creature.”
entry). Size and Type: Templates often change a creature’s type, and
A size increase affects any special ability the creature has that is may change the creature’s size.
affected by size, such as improved grab. Increased size also affects If a template changes the base creature’s type, the creature also
a creature’s ability scores, AC, attack bonuses, and damage values acquires the augmented subtype (see page 306) unless the tem-
as indicated on Tables 4–2 and 4–3. plate description indicates otherwise. The augmented subtype is
always paired with the creature’s original type. For example, a uni-
Table 4–2: Changes to Statistics by Size
corn with the half-celestial template is an outsider with the aug-
Natural AC/ mented magical beast subtype. Unless a template indicates other-
Old Size* New Size Str Dex Con Armor Attack wise, the new creature has the traits of the new type but the
Fine Diminutive Same –2 Same Same –4 features of the original type. The example half-celestial unicorn
Diminutive Tiny +2 –2 Same Same –2 has outsider traits (darkvision out to 60 feet, no soul) and magical
Tiny Small +4 –2 Same Same –1 beast features (10-sided Hit Dice, base attack bonus equal to total
Small Medium +4 –2 +2 Same –1 Hit Dice, good Fortitude and Reflex saves, and so on).
Medium Large +8 –2 +4 +2 –1 If a template changes a creature’s size, use Table 4–2 to calculate
Large Huge +8 –2 +4 +3 –1 changes to natural armor, Armor Class, attack rolls, and grapple bonus.
Huge Gargantuan +8 Same +4 +4 –2 Hit Dice and Hit Points: Most templates do not change the
Gargantuan Colossal +8 Same +4 +5 –4 number of Hit Dice a monster has, but some do.
*-Repeat the adjustment if the creature moves up more than one size. Some templates change the size of a creature’s Hit Dice (usually
For example, if a creature advances from Medium to Huge size, it by changing the creature type). A few templates change previ-
gains +16 to Strength, –4 to Dexterity, and –2 to attack bonus and ously acquired Hit Dice, and continue to change Hit Dice gained
Armor Class. with class levels, but most templates that change Hit Dice change
only the creature’s original HD and leave class Hit Dice
Table 4–3: Increased Damage By Size
unchanged.
Old Damage (Each)* New Damage If the Hit Dice entry in a template description is missing, Hit
1d2 1d3 Dice and hit points do not change unless the creature’s Constitu-
1d3 1d4 tion modifier changes.
1d4 1d6 Initiative: If a template changes the monster’s Dexterity, or if it
1d6 1d8 adds or removes the Improved Initiative feat, this entry changes.
1d8 2d6 Speed: If a template modifies a creature’s speed, the template
1d10 2d8 states how that happens. More commonly, a template adds a new
2d6 3d6 movement mode, such as a fly speed.
2d8 3d8 Armor Class: If a template changes the creature’s size, see Table
* Repeat the adjustment if the creature moves up more than one size 4–2 to determine its new Armor Class and to see whether its natu-
category. For example, if a Medium creature with two claw attacks ral armor changes. In some cases, such as with the ghost template, 291
dealing 1d4 points of damage each advances from Medium to the method of determining Armor Class changes radically; the
Huge, the damage dealt by each of its claw attacks increases to 1d8. template description explains how to adjust the creature’s AC.

Base Attack/Grapple: Templates usually do not change a crea- Space/Reach: A template may change this entry if it changes
ture’s base attack bonus. If a template modifies a creature’s base the monster’s size. The typical space and reach for monsters of
attack bonus, the template description states how that happens. each size is given on Table 7–1: Creature Sizes (page 314). Note
Changes to a creature’s Strength score can change a creature’s grap- that this table does not take into account special situations such as
ple bonus, as can changes to its size; see Table 7–1, page 314. a roper’s strands.
Attack and Full Attack: Most templates do not change a crea- Special Attacks: A template may add or remove special attacks.
ture’s attack bonus or modes of attack, even when the creature’s The template description gives the details of any special attacks a
type changes (the creature’s base attack bonus is the same as a crea- template provides, including how to determine saving throw DCs,
ture of the original type). Of course, any change in ability scores if applicable.
may affect attack bonuses. If Strength or Dexterity changes, use Special Qualities: A template may add or remove special qual-
the new modifier to determine attack bonuses. A change in a mon- ities. The template description gives the details of any special qual-
:4 GNICNAVDA ster’s size also changes its attack bonus; see Table 4–2. ities a template provides, including how to determine saving
