INEVITABLE
observation mode, but they seem oblivious to the attention. Those
Hailing from the lawful neutral plane of Mechanus, inevitables in the know who hear about a 12-foot-tall, golden-armored statue
are constructs whose sole aim is to enforce the natural laws of the roaming the countryside might seek out the inevitable and pres-
universe. ent a case, hoping it will take on the alleged transgressor. The deci-
Each type of inevitable is designed to find and punish a particu- sion is based on the idiosyncrasies of the inevitable’s program-
lar kind of transgression, hunting down a person or group that has ming, so there’s no guarantee.
violated a fundamental principle, such as “The guilty should be Their forms vary, but all inevitables are gold-and-silver clock-
punished,” “Bargains should be kept,” or “Everyone dies eventu- work creatures, with gears and pistons where muscles would be
ally.” When an inevitable is created, it receives its first mission, on flesh-and-blood creatures. Their eyes glow with a golden
then finds the transgressors and metes out appropriate punish- radiance.
ELBATIVENI ment. The sentence is usually death, although some inevitables Note that unlike most constructs, inevitables have an Intelli-
insist on compensation to the wronged party instead, using geas gence score and can think, learn, and remember.
andmark of justice to ensure compliance. From its first step, an Inevitables speak Abyssal, Celestial, Infernal, and the native lan-
inevitable focuses totally on its target. It continues its efforts no guage of their first target.
matter how cold the trail or hopeless the task. If unable to cross an
ocean any other way, inevitables have been known to COMBAT
walk into the waves, travers- Unless their very
ing the seabed to emerge existence is threat-
on another continent ened, inevitables
months later. focus complete-
Inevitables are ly on the trans-
single-minded in gressor they’ve
pursuit of their been assigned
quarry, but they to, ignoring other
are under orders to combatants com-
leave innocents alone. pletely. An inevit-
Accomplices to their Zelekhut able might attack
prey are fair game, anyone who hin-
however, which sometimes cre- ders its progress,
ates conflicts within their but it won’t tarry
programming. Even the beyond the point
most effective inevit- where it can
ables are periodically reengage its
recalled to Mech- quarry.
anus for repro-
gramming.
Inevitables Marut
gladly sacrifice
themselves to
complete a
mission, but
they aren’t
suicidal. Faced
with impending Inevitables take
defeat, they are self-defense very
likely to withdraw seriously; anyone
and seek a way to who attacks an in-
even the odds. They are evitable with what
determined but the creature per-
patient foes. They ceives as deadly
ally with others if force is met with
that helps accom- deadly force in return.
plish their mission, An inevitable’s natural
but they have a weapons, as well as any
hard time keeping weapons it wields, are
allies for long. treated as lawful-
It’s apparent aligned for the
to anyone who purpose of overcom-
spends much time ing damage reduction.
with one that an inevitable would Fast Healing (Ex): An inevitable
sacrifice an ally to fulfill its purpose without a Kolyarut heals a certain amount of damage each
second thought. round (specified in each variety’s description) as
When an inevitable completes its task, it wanders the landscape long as it has at least 1 hit point. However, damage dealt by chaotic
158 and passively observes life around it. When it discerns another weapons heals at the normal rate.
transgression of the principle it is dedicated to, it has a new mis-

KOLYARUT ity before it can react. A kolyarut has no compunctions about using
Medium Construct (Extraplanar, Lawful) its vampiric touch ability on allies to increase its own power, if
Hit Dice: 13d10+20 (91 hp) doing so helps it complete its mission.
Initiative: +1 A kolyarut’s natural weapons, as well as any weapons it wields,
Speed: 20 ft. in banded mail (4 squares); base speed 30 ft. are treated as lawful-aligned for the purpose of overcoming damage
Armor Class: 27 (+1 Dex, +10 natural, +6 banded mail) touch 11, reduction.
flat-footed 26 Enervation Ray (Su): A kolyarut can fire a black enervation
Base Attack/Grapple: +9/+11 ray at targets within 200 feet. The effect is identical with the ener-
Attack: Vampiric touch +11 melee touch (5d6) or enervation ray vation spell (caster level 13th).
+10 ranged touch (as spell) or +2 longsword +13 melee Spell-Like Abilities: At will—discern lies (DC 17), disguise self,
(1d8+5/19–20) or slam +11 melee (1d6+3) fear(DC 17), hold person (DC 16), invisibility, locate creature, suggestion
Full Attack: Vampiric touch +11/+6 melee touch (5d6) or ener- (DC 16);1/day—hold monster (DC 17), mark of justice; 1/week— INEVITABLE
vation ray +10 ranged touch (as spell) or +2 longsword +13/+8 geas uest. Caster level 13th. The save DCs are Charisma-based.
melee (1d8+5/19–20) or slam +11/+6 melee (1d6+3) Vampiric Touch (Su): As a melee touch attack, a kolyarut can
Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft. steal life force from its foe, as the vampiric touch spell (caster level
Special Attacks: Enervation ray, spell-like abilities, vampiric 13th).
touch Skills: A kolyarut has a +4 racial bonus on Disguise, Gather
Special Qualities: Construct traits, damage reduction Information, and Sense Motive checks.
10/chaotic, darkvision 60 ft., fast healing 5, low-light vision,
spell resistance 22 MARUT
Saves: Fort +6, Ref +7, Will +7 Large Construct (Extraplanar, Lawful)
Abilities: Str 14, Dex 13, Con —, Int 10, Wis 17, Cha 16 Hit Dice: 15d10+30 (112 hp)
Skills: Diplomacy +5, Disguise +12, Gather Information +12, Initiative: +1
Listen +11, Search +5, Sense Motive +12, Spot +11, Survival +3 Speed: 30 ft. in full plate armor (6 squares); base speed 40 ft.
(+5 following tracks) Armor Class: 34 (–1 size, +1 Dex, +16 natural, +8 full plate
Feats: Alertness, Combat Casting, Great Fortitude, Lightning armor), touch 10, flat-footed 33
Reflexes, Quickened Spell-Like Ability (suggestion) Base Attack/Grapple: +11/+27
Environment: Clockwork Nirvana of Mechanus Attack: Slam +22 melee (2d6+12 plus 3d6 sonic or 3d6 electric-
Organization:Solitary ity)
Challenge Rating: 12 Full Attack: 2 slams +22 melee (2d6+12 plus 3d6 sonic or 3d6
Treasure: None electricity)
Alignment: Always lawful neutral Space/Reach: 10 ft./10 ft.
Advancement: 14–22 HD (Medium); 23–39 HD (Large) Special Attacks: Fists of thunder and lightning, spell-like
Level Adjustment: — abilities
Special Qualities: Construct traits, damage reduction
This creature looks like a red-skinned humanoid made up of mechanical 15/chaotic, darkvision 60 ft., fast healing 10, low-light vision,
parts. It is dressed in ornate golden armor and a flowing golden robe. It spell resistance 25
carries a gleaming sword and wears banded mail. Saves: Fort +7, Ref +6, Will +8
Abilities: Str 35, Dex 13, Con —, Int 12, Wis 17, Cha 18
Kolyaruts represent the ultimate enforcement clause in a con- Skills: Concentration +13, Diplomacy +6, Knowledge (religion)
tract—they mete out punishment to those who break bargains +10, Listen +16, Search +10, Sense Motive +12, Spot +16,
and oaths. Originally sent from Mechanus to avenge major betray- Survival +3 (+5 following tracks)
als, once on the Material Plane they hunt down everyone from un- Feats: Ability Focus (fists), Awesome Blow, Combat Casting,
scrupulous merchants to army deserters. Anyone who reneges on Great Fortitude, Improved Bull Rush, Power Attack
a deal could draw the ire of a kolyarut, although the creature usu- Environment: Clockwork Nirvana of Mechanus
ally ignores inconsequential deals and rashly sworn oaths. Organization:Solitary
Before beginning a mission against a deal-breaker, a kolyarut Challenge Rating: 15
learns as much about the contract or oath as possible. It’s not inter- Treasure: None
ested in those who break deals accidentally or against their will— Alignment: Always lawful neutral
only those who willingly break contracts violate the principle that Advancement: 16–28 HD (Large); 29–45 HD (Huge)
kolyaruts are created to uphold. If a written contract was broken, Level Adjustment: —
the kolyarut typically carries a copy of the contract with it.
Kolyaruts are the most talkative of the inevitables, making cred- This creature, outfitted in golden armor over an onyx-colored body, is
ible attempts at social niceties such as proper greetings before get- humanoid in shape but much larger than a human and seems to be made
ting down to the matter at hand. They can use disguise self to appear of mechanical parts. It carries no weapons or other equipment.
as almost any kind of humanoid—useful if they need to go under-
cover to catch their quarry. Maruts represent the inevitability of death. They confront those
who would try to deny the grave itself.
Combat Any who use unnatural means to extend their life span (such as
Like all inevitables, a kolyarut is patient enough to study a target a lich) could be targeted by a marut. Those who take extraordinary
before striking. It has a good idea of the deal-breaker’s abilities and measures to cheat death in some other way (such as sacrificing
defenses before it enters battle. When it fights, it tries to get the hundreds of others to keep oneself safe from a plague) might be
conflict over as soon as possible, minimizing excess bloodshed labeled transgressors as well. Those who use magic to reverse
and mayhem. It doesn’t let concern for innocents delay or endan- death (raise dead spells, for example) aren’t worthy of a marut’s at-
ger its mission, however. tention unless they do so repeatedly or on a massive scale. 159
A kolyarut’s favorite tactic is to use invisibility ordisguise self to When a marut has identified its target, it walks surely and
sneak close, then eliminate the quarry with its vampiric touch abil- implacably toward the foe, never resting.

Combat A zelekhut may initially appear rather nonthreatening—but
Once it has found its target, a marut brings it the death it has been when it is about to enter combat, it can cause two spiked chains to
trying to avoid. Those who defile death through necromancy may spring forth from its forearms as a free action. In similar fashion, it
instead receive a geas and/ormark of justice to enforce proper re- can cause a pair of golden metallic wings to emerge from its back.
spect. It typically uses wall of force to shut off any escape routes, Retracting the chains or the wings is also a free action.
then opens up with chain lightning while it closes to melee range.
Once there, it strikes with its massive fists, using circle of death if Combat
beset by numbers of defenders. It hits spellcasting opponents with Once it has found its fugitive, a zelekhut uses its speed and its
repeated uses of greater dispel magic, and it uses dimension door and spell-like abilities to cover the most likely escape routes. Then it
locate creature to track down foes who flee. immobilizes any defenders while attempting to protect any inno-
A marut’s natural weapons, as well as any weapons it wields, are cent bystanders. Finally, it apprehends the fugitive with its spiked
treated as lawful-aligned for the purpose of overcoming damage chains, tripping or disarming the foe as needed. If the sentence is
