L
within 30 feet of one another take 10 on a Swim check, even if distracted or endangered. It
while it builds. The lightning can use the run action while swimming, provided it swims in a
bolt deals 1d6 points of electricity straight line.
damage per whip, but a successful
Reflex save (DC 13 + number of KUO-TOA SOCIETY
whips) halves this amount. Kuo-toas dwell in subterranean communities that are well sup-
Pincer Staff: Many kuo-toa plied with pools for recreation and
fighters and all whips of 7th breeding. They spawn as fish do,
level or higher carry this Large raising their young in special
exotic weapon. A pincer staff deals pools until their amphibian
1d10 points of bludgeoning damage, qualities develop (about a year
threatens a critical hit on a natural after hatching).
20, and deals double damage on a crit- Thanks to the efforts of the whips,
ical hit. It has a 10-foot reach and virtually all kuo-toas are devoted wor-
cannot be used against an adjacent shipers of the goddess Blibdoolpoolp, whom they refer
opponent. A wielder that hits an op- to as the Sea Mother. Every kuo-toa community has at
ponent of at least Small but no larger least one shrine to the Sea Mother. Larger communi-
than Large size can attempt to start a ties with major temples serve as hubs for clusters
grapple as a free action without provoking of smaller settlements. These are also centers
an attack of opportunity. If the wielder wins for intergroup trade and politics. Virtually all
the grapple check, the staff estab- kuo-toa communities are open to drow
lishes a hold and grabs the oppo- and their servants, who provide
nent, dealing 1d10 points of useful goods and services, although
damage each round the hold is the drow are both feared and hated
maintained. by the kuo-toas. This enmity leads
Adhesive (Ex): to many minor skirmishes
164 Kuo-toas use their own body oil and other materials to give Lamia and frequent kidnappings between
their shields a finish almost like flypaper, holding fast any the two societies.

KUO-TOA CHARACTERS Wisdom Drain (Su): A lamia drains 1d4 points of Wisdom
A kuo-toa’s favored class is rogue. Most kuo-toa leaders are each time it hits with its melee touch attack. (Unlike with other
cleric/rogues or clerics (whips). Kuo-toa clerics worship Blib- kinds of ability drain attacks, a lamia does not heal any damage
doolpoolp. A kuo-toa cleric has access to two of the following when it uses its Wisdom drain.) Lamias try to use this power early
domains: Destruction, Evil, or Water. Kuo-toa monks, called mon- in an encounter to make foes more susceptible to charm monster
itors, also exist. andsuggestion.
Skills: Lamias have a +4 racial bonus on Bluff and Hide checks.
