LICH CHARACTERS
The creature looks like a female human or elf with the lower torso of a
The process of becoming a lich is unspeakably evil and can be multicolored serpent and huge, strikingly patterned wings like a bird’s.
undertaken only by a willing character. A lich retains all class abil-
ities it had in life. Lillends are mysterious visitors from the plane of Ysgard. Many
are skilled in one or more forms of artistic expression.
THE LICH’S PHYLACTERY Lillends are lovers of music and art. Gold, even food, means
An integral part of becoming a lich is creating a magic phylactery little to them, while a song, story, or piece of artwork holds great
in which the character stores its life force. As a rule, the value. The destruction of art and the ill treatment of artists
only way to get rid of a lich for sure is to destroy its enrages them. They are infamous for holding grudges, and
phylactery. Unless its phylactery is located they are often encountered seeking violent retri-
and destroyed, a lich reappears 1d10 days bution against enemies of their favorite arts.
after its apparent death. Lillends also have a great love of
DNELLIL Each lich must make its own phy- unspoiled wilderness. The wilds remind
lactery, which requires the Craft them of the natural beauty of their home
Wondrous Item feat. The charac- plane, and they occa-
ter must be able to cast spells and sionally visit and enjoy
have a caster level of 11th or similar regions. A lillend
higher. The phylactery costs is as protective of its chosen
120,000 gp and 4,800 XP to wilderness as it is of the arts.
create and has a caster level These beings sometimes form
equal to that of its creator at temporary alliances with rangers,
the time of creation. druids, and bards to defend their
The most common form favorite retreats against the encroach-
of phylactery is a sealed ment of civilization. Sometimes a covey
metal box containing of lillends adopts a tract of wilderness,
strips of parchment on using any means necessary to drive off
which magical phrases despoilers.
have been transcribed. A typical lillend’s coils are 20 feet long.
The box is Tiny and has 40 The creature weighs about 3,800 pounds. A
hit points, hardness 20, few lillends have male torsos.
and a break DC of 40. Lillend Lillends speak Celestial, Infernal,
Other forms of phylacter- Abyssal, and Common.
ies can exist, such as rings,
amulets, or similar items. COMBAT
Lillends are generally peaceful unless
they intend vengeance against some-
