LYCANTHOPE
Low-Light Vision (Ex): A lycanthrope has low-light vision in any more once, in which case the duplicated feat works as noted in the
form. feat description. This process may give the lycanthrope more feats
Scent (Ex): A lycanthrope has the scent ability in any form. than a character of its total Hit Dice would normally be entitled to;
Base Save Bonuses:Add the base save bonuses of the base if this occurs, any “extra” feats are denoted as bonus feats.
animal to the base save bonuses of the base creature. It’s possible that a lycanthrope cannot meet the prerequisites for
Abilities:All lycanthropes gain +2 to Wisdom. In addition, all its feats when in humanoid form. If this occurs, the lycan-
when in animal form, a lycanthrope’s physical ability scores thrope still has the feats, but cannot use them when in humanoid
improve according to its kind, as set out in the table below. These form. A lycanthrope receives Iron Will as a bonus feat.
adjustments are equal to the animal’s normal ability scores –10 or Environment:Same as either the base creature or base animal.
–11. For example, a werecrocodile (Str 19, Dex 12, Con 17) would Organization:Solitary or pair, sometimes family (3–4), pack
add Str +8, Dex +2, and Con +6 to its normal ability scores when it (6–10), or troupe (family plus related animals)
takes crocodile form. A lycanthrope in hybrid form modifies its Challenge Rating:By class level or base creature, modified
physical ability scores by the same amount. according to the HD of the base animal: 1 HD or 2 HD, +2; 3 HD
In addition, a lycanthrope may also gain an additional ability to 5 HD, +3; 6 HD to 10 HD, +4; 11 HD to 20 HD, +5; 21 or more
score increase by virtue of its extra Hit Dice. HD, +6.
Skills: A lycanthrope gains skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, Treasure:Standard.
Hill Giant Dire Wereboar Hill Giant Dire Wereboar Hill Giant Dire Wereboar
Giant Form Dire Boar Form Hybrid Boar Form
Large Giant (Shapechanger) Large Giant (Shapechanger) Large Giant (Shapechanger)
Hit Dice: 12d8+51 plus 7d8+49 (185 hp) 12d8+51 plus 7d8+49 (185 hp) 12d8+51 plus 7d8+49 (185 hp)
Initiative: –1 –1 –1
Speed: 30 ft. in hide armor (6 squares); 40 ft. (8 squares) 40 ft. (8 squares)
base speed 40 ft.
Armor Class: 22 (–1 size, –1 Dex, +11 natural, 16 (–1 size, –1 Dex, +8 natural), 19 (–1 size, –1 Dex, +11 natural),
+3 hide armor), touch 8, flat-footed 22 touch 8, flat-footed 16 touch 8, flat-footed 19
Base Attack/Grapple: +14/+25 +14/+33 +14/+33
Attack: Greatclub +21 melee (2d8+10) or Gore +28 melee (1d8+22) Greatclub +29 melee (2d8+22) or
slam +20 melee (1d4+7) or claw +28 melee (1d6+15)
rock +12 ranged (2d6+7)
Full Attack: Greatclub +21/+16 melee (2d8+10) or Gore +28 melee (1d8+22) Greatclub +29 melee (2d8+22)
2 slams +20 melee (1d4+7) or and gore +23 melee (1d8+7); or
rock +12 ranged (2d6+7) 2 claws +28 melee (1d6+15)
and gore +23 melee (1d8+7)
Space/Reach: 10 ft./10 ft. 10 ft./5 ft. 10 ft./10 ft.
Special Attacks: Rock throwing Curse of lycanthropy Curse of lycanthropy
Special Qualities: Alternate form, boar empathy, ferocity, Alternate form, boar empathy, Alternate form, boar empathy,
low-light vision, rock catching, scent damage reduction 10/silver, damage reduction 10/silver,
ferocity, low-light vision, scent ferocity, low-light vision, scent
Saves: Fort +17, Ref +8, Will +12 Fort +20, Ref +8, Will +12 Fort +20, Ref +8, Will +12
Abilities: Str 25, Dex 8, Con 19, Str 41, Dex 8, Con 25, Str 41, Dex 8, Con 25,
Int 6, Wis 12, Cha 7 Int 6, Wis 12, Cha 7 Int 6, Wis 12, Cha 7
Skills: Climb +10, Jump +10, Listen +10, Climb +18, Jump +22, Listen +10, Climb +18, Jump +22, Listen 10,
Spot +12 Spot +12 Spot +12
Feats: AlertnessB, Cleave, Endurance, (same as giant form) (same as giant form)
Improved Bull Rush, Improved
Sunder, Iron WillB, Power Attack,
Weapon Focus (greatclub)
Environment: Temperate hills Temperate hills Temperate hills
Organization: Solitary, pair, brood (3–4), or (same as giant form) (same as giant form)
troupe (2–4 plus 1–4 dire boars)
Challenge Rating: 11 11 11
Treasure: Standard Standard Standard
Alignment: Always neutral Always neutral Always neutral 177
Advancement: By character class By character class By character class
Level Adjustment: +7 +7 +7

Alignment: Any. Noble creatures such as bears, eagles, and Changing Form
lions tend to produce good-aligned lycanthropes. Sinister crea- Changing form is a standard action. If the change is involuntary, the
tures such as rats, snakes, and wolves tend to produce evil-aligned character performs the change on his next turn following the trig-
lycanthropes. This is a reflection of how these animals are per- gering event. Changing to animal or hybrid form ruins the charac-
ceived, not any innate quality of the animal itself, so the Dungeon ter’s armor and clothing (including any items worn) if the new form
Master can arbitrarily assign the alignment of the animal form. is larger than the character’s natural form; carried items are simply
Advancement: By character class. dropped. Characters can hastily doff clothing while changing, but
Level Adjustment: Same as the base creature +2 (afflicted) or not armor. Magic armor survives the change if it succeeds on a DC
+3 (natural). In addition, a lycanthrope’s character level is 15 Fortitude save. An afflicted character who is not aware of his con-
increased by the number of racial Hit Dice the base animal has. dition remains in animal form until the next dawn. An afflicted
EPORHTNACYL character who is aware of his or her condition (see above) can try to
Common Lycanthropes
resume humanoid form following a change (voluntary or involun-
Animal or Hybrid Form Preferred tary) with a Control Shape check, but if he fails his check, he
Name Animal Form Ability Modifiers Alignment remains in animal (or hybrid) form until the following dawn.
Werebear Brown bear Str +16, Dex +2, Con +8 Lawful good
Wereboar Boar Str +4, Con +6 Neutral Curing Lycanthropy
Wererat Dire rat Dex +6, Con +2 Chaotic evil An afflicted character who eats a sprig of belladonna (also called
Weretiger Tiger Str +12, Dex +4, Con +6 Neutral wolfsbane) within 1 hour of a lycanthrope’s attack can attempt a
Werewolf Wolf Str +2, Dex +4, Con +4 Chaotic evil DC 20 Fortitude save to shake off the affliction. If a healer admin-
Dire wereboar Dire boar Str +16, Con +6 Neutral isters the herb, use the character’s save bonus or the healer’s Heal
modifier, whichever is higher. The character gets only one chance,
LYCANTHROPY AS AN AFFLICTION no matter how much belladonna is consumed. The belladonna
When a character contracts lycanthropy through a lycanthrope’s must be reasonably fresh (picked within the last week).
bite (see above), no symptoms appear until the first night of the However, fresh or not, belladonna is toxic. The character must
next full moon. On that night, the afflicted character involuntarily succeed on a DC 13 Fortitude save or take 1d6 points of Strength
assumes animal form and forgets his or her own identity, tem- damage. One minute later, the character must succeed on a second
porarily becoming an NPC under the DM’s control. The character DC 13 save or take an additional 2d6 points of Strength damage.
remains in animal form, assuming the appropriate alignment, Aremove disease orheal spell cast by a cleric of 12th level or
until the next dawn. higher also cures the affliction, provided the character receives the
The character’s actions during this first episode are dictated by spell within three days of the lycanthrope’s attack.
the alignment of its animal form. Good-aligned lycanthropes seek The only other way to remove the affliction is to cast remove
to avoid settlements or travelers and nonnatural environments, curseorbreak enchantment on the character during one of the three
seeking out wilderness environs. They may hunt the natural prey days of the full moon. After receiving the spell, the character must
of their kind, but avoid attacking good and neutral intelligent crea- succeed on a DC 20 Will save to break the curse (the caster knows
tures. Evil-aligned lycanthropes seek to murder as many intelligent if the spell works). If the save fails, the process must be repeated.
creatures as possible, often killing their own family members and Characters undergoing this cure are often kept bound or confined
friends. They generally seek out places where such victims may be in cages until the cure takes effect.
found. Neutral creatures seek remote areas and avoid contact with Only afflicted lycanthropes can be cured of lycanthropy.
civilization, but might attack travelers or other folk abroad in the
wilderness if the travelers are few in number. However, the attack LYCANTHROPES AS CHARACTERS
is driven by natural ferocity and hunger, not malice. In any case, Since they live in the wilderness, most lycanthropes become bar-
the character remembers nothing about the entire episode (or sub- barians or rangers. Wererats tend to become rogues. Becoming a
sequent episodes) unless he succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom check, in lycanthrope does not change a character’s favored class but usually
which case he becomes aware of his lycanthropic condition. changes alignment (see above). This alignment change may cause
Thereafter, the character is subject to involuntary transforma- characters of certain classes to lose some of their class features, as
tion under the full moon and whenever damaged in combat. He or noted in Chapter 3 of the Player’s Handbook.
she feels an overwhelming rage building up and must succeed on Lycanthrope characters possess the following racial traits.
a Control Shape check (see page 303) to resist changing into — +2 Wisdom. Physical abilities are increased by the animal
animal form. Any player character not yet aware of his or her form’s ability modifiers when a lycanthrope changes to its hybrid
lycanthropic condition temporarily becomes an NPC under the or animal forms.
DM’s control during an involuntary change, and acts as described —Size same as the base creature or the base animal form.
above depending on the alignment of his or her animal form. —Low-light vision in any form.
A character with awareness of his condition retains his identity —Scent in any form.
and does not lose control of his actions if he changes. However, —Racial Hit Dice: A lycanthrope adds the Hit Dice of its animal
each time he changes to his animal form, he must make a Will form to its base Hit Dice for race, level, and class. These additional
save (DC 15 + number of times he has been in animal form) or Hit Dice modify the lycanthrope’s base attack bonus and base
permanently assume the alignment of his animal form in all saving throw bonuses accordingly.
shapes. An evil lycanthrope who is aware of his actions in animal —Racial Skills: A lycanthrope adds skill points for its animal
form is not compelled to murder and kill indiscriminately, but he Hit Dice much as if it had multiclassed into the animal type. It
delights in bloodshed and will certainly seek out opportunities to gains skill points equal to (2 + Int modifier, minimum 1) per Hit
slaughter intelligent beings, preferably those of his own race. Die of the animal form. Any skills that appear in the animal’s
Once a character becomes aware of his affliction, he can now vol- description are treated as class skills for the lycanthrope’s animal
untarily attempt to change to animal or hybrid form, using the levels. The lycanthrope’s maximum skill ranks are equal to its
appropriate Control Shape check DC (see page 303). An attempt is a animal form Hit Dice + its racial Hit Dice (if any) + its class levels
178 standard action and can be made each round. Any voluntary change + 3. Any racial skill adjustments of the lycanthrope’s base race and
to animal or hybrid form immediately and permanently changes its animal form (but not conditional adjustments) are added to its
the character’s alignment to that of the appropriate lycanthrope. skill modifiers in any form.

—Racial Feats: Add the animal’s Hit Dice to the base character’s A typical magmin is 4 feet tall and weighs 400 pounds.
own Hit Dice to determine how many feats the character has. All Magmins speak Ignan.
lycanthropes gain Iron Will as a bonus feat.
— +2 natural armor bonus in any form. COMBAT
—Special Qualities (see above): Alternate form, lycanthropic Although small, magmins are dangerous opponents. Their touch
empathy, curse of lycanthropy (in animal or hybrid form only). is effective against those who lack protection or immunity from
—Afflicted lycanthrope: damage reduction 5/silver (in animal heat and flames, but if faced with opponents who have immunity
or hybrid form only). to fire, magmins rely on their slam attack. In any case, magmins
—Natural lycanthrope: damage reduction 10/silver (in animal are not valiant fighters. They usually flee if injured, although often
or hybrid form only). only far enough to set up a fiery ambush for their enemies.
—Automatic Languages: As base creature. A magmin’s natural weapons are treated as magic weapons for
—Favored Class: Same as the base creature. the purpose of overcoming damage reduction. MANTICORE
—Level adjustment: Same as the base creature +2 (afflicted) or Combustion (Ex): Anyone a magmin touches must succeed on
+3 (natural). a DC 12 Reflex save or take an extra 1d8 points of fire damage as
clothes ignite or armor becomes searing hot. The damage contin-
ues for another 1d4+2 rounds after the magmin’s last successful
