MANTICORE
Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft.
Special Attacks: Combustion, fiery aura Large Magical Beast
Special Qualities: Damage reduc- Hit Dice: 6d10+24 (57 hp)
tion 5/magic, darkvision 60 ft., Initiative: +2
elemental traits, immunity to fire, Magmin Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares), fly
melt weapons, vulnerability to cold 50 ft. (clumsy)
Saves: Fort +3, Ref +3, Will +0 Armor Class: 17 (–1 size, +2
Abilities: Str 15, Dex 11, Con 13, Int Dex, +6 natural), touch 11,
8, Wis 10, Cha 10 flat-footed 15
Skills: Climb +4, Spot +3 Base Attack/Grapple: +6/+15
Feats: Great Fortitude Attack: Claw +10 melee
Environment: Elemental Plane of Fire (2d4+5) or 6 spikes +8 ranged
Organization: Solitary, gang (2–4), or (1d8+2/19–20)
squad (6–10) Full Attack: 2 claws +10
Challenge Rating: 3 melee (2d4+5) and bite +8
Treasure: Standard coins; standard melee (1d8+2); or 6 spikes +8
goods (nonflammables only); standard ranged (1d8+2/19–20)
items (nonflammables only) Space/Reach: 10 ft./5 ft.
Alignment: Always chaotic neutral Special Attacks: Spikes
Advancement: 3–4 HD (Small); 5–6 Special Qualities: Darkvision
HD (Medium) 60 ft., low-light vision, scent
Level Adjustment: — Saves: Fort +9, Ref +7, Will +3
Abilities: Str 20, Dex 15,
This glowing, humanoid creature Con 19, Int 7, Wis 12, Cha 9
looks like a stumpy human sculpted Skills: Listen +5, Spot +9,
from fire and flowing lava. It radi- Survival +1
ates heat like a small bonfire, and Feats: Flyby Attack,
it has a gleeful, almost mali- Multiattack, TrackB, Weapon
cious smile on its face. Focus (spikes)
Environment: Warm
Magmins are small, marshes
human-shaped Organization:
beings from the Solitary, pair, or pride
Elemental Plane of (3–6)
Fire that radiate intense Challenge Rating: 5
heat and are wreathed in an aura of Treasure: Standard
searing flames. Alignment: Usually lawful evil
Although not evil, these fiery creatures are extremely mischie- Advancement: 7–16 HD (Large); 17–18 HD (Huge) 179
vous. They like to watch things burn, perhaps lacking the ability to Level Adjustment: +3 (cohort)
understand that flames are painful or even deadly to other creatures.

This creature is a monster in every sense of the word. It has the head of a Organization:Solitary or covey (2–4)
vaguely humanoid beast, the body of a lion, and the wings of a Challenge Rating: 7
dragon. The creature’s back is set Treasure: Double standard
with curved barbs, and its long Alignment: Usually lawful evil
tail ends in a cluster of Advancement: By character class
deadly spikes. Level Adjustment: —
Though at first glance this creature
appeared to be a well-proportioned
human, a closer look reveals a
hideous face crowned with a
mass of writhing, hissing
ASUDEMonalerA snakes instead of hair, eyes
glowing a deep, feral red,
and scaly, earth-colored
skin.
The medusa is a
hateful, repulsive
creature that
petrifies living
Manticore beings with its
gaze. It prizes
art objects, fine
jewelry, and wealth. Its activities
often revolve around obtaining these
items.
Manticores are fierce crea- A medusa is indistinguishable from a normal human at dis-
tures that hunt widely for living flesh. They are tances greater than 30 feet (or closer, if its face is concealed). The
cunning and evil. A manticore can be a deadly creature often wears garments that enhance its body while hiding
enemy or a powerful ally. its face behind a hood or veil.
A typical manticore is about 10 feet long and Medusas are found in nearly every climate. Some dwell in large
weighs about 1,000 pounds. cities, becoming active in the criminal underworld to gain their
Manticores speak Common. desires. A few medusas have formed robbery rings or organized
.C smuggling cabals.
yb COMBAT A typical medusa is 5 to 6 feet tall and about the same weight as
.sullI
A manticore begins most attacks with a volley of spikes, then a human.
closes. In the outdoors, it often uses its powerful wings to stay Medusas speak Common.
aloft during battle.
Spikes (Ex): With a snap of its tail, a manticore can loose a COMBAT
volley of six spikes as a standard action (make an attack roll for A medusa tries to disguise its true nature until the intended victim
each spike). This attack has a range of 180 feet with no range incre- is within range of its petrifying gaze, using subterfuge and bluff-
ment. All targets must be within 30 feet of each other. The creature ing games to convince the target that there is no danger. It uses
can launch only twenty-four spikes in any 24-hour period. normal weapons to attack those who avert their eyes or survive its
Skills: *Manticores have a +4 racial bonus on Spot checks. gaze, while its poisonous snakes strike at adjacent opponents.
Petrifying Gaze (Su): Turn to stone permanently, 30 feet, Forti-
tude DC 15 negates. The save DC is Charisma-based.
