MERFOLK
fast healing 2 ranged (1d10/19–20)
Saves: Fort +4, Ref +3, Will +3 Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft.
Abilities: Str 14, Dex 10, Con 13, Int 6, Wis 11, Cha 15 Special Attacks: —
Skills: Bluff +8, Escape Artist +6, Hide +10, Listen +6, Diplomacy Special Qualities: Amphibious, low-light vision
+4, Disguise +2 (+4 acting), Move Silently +6, Saves: Fort +4, Ref +1, Will –1
Spot +6, Swim +10, Use Rope +0 (+2 with Abilities: Str 13, Dex 13, Con 14, Int 10, Wis 9,
bindings) Merfolk Cha 10
Feats: Power Attack,Toughness Skills: Listen +3, Spot +3, Swim +9
Environment: Elemental Plane of Feats: Alertness
Water Environment: Temperate aquatic
Organization:Solitary (1), gang Organization:Company (2–4), patrol
(2–4 mephits of mixed types), (11–20 plus 2 3rd-level lieutenants and 1
or mob (5–12 mephits of leader of 3rd–6th level), or band (30–60
mixed types) plus 1 3rd-level sergeant per 20 adults, 5
Challenge Rating: 3 5th-level lieutenants, 3 7th-level captains,
Treasure: Standard and 10 porpoises)
Alignment: Usually neutral Challenge Rating: 1/2
Advancement: 4–6 HD Treasure: Standard
(Small); 7–9 HD (Medium) Alignment: Usually neutral
Level Adjustment: +3 Advancement: By character class
(cohort) Level Adjustment: +1
This winged creature looks like a This being has the upper body, arms, and head of
miniature fish-person. It is covered a fair-featured human. Instead of legs, however, it
with scales and views the world has the scaled tail of a great fish.
through black, bulbous eyes.
The merfolk are playful, marine-
Water mephits come from the dwelling people. Although wary of
Elemental Plane of Water. surface dwellers, they are not usu-
Water mephits are jaunty ally hostile: They prefer sunning
creatures with an unflagging themselves on rocks to engaging
sense of humor who quickly get in warfare.
on the nerves of everyone around Both male and female merfolk
them. Each one is about 4 feet tall decorate themselves with shells,
and weighs about 30 pounds. coral, and other underwater adorn-
Water mephits speak Common and ments.
Aquan. Adventurers who encounter
merfolk are often the victims of
Combat pranks and mischief. The sport of
Breath Weapon (Su): 15-foot cone of caustic merfolk can be cruel, although they
liquid, damage 1d8 acid, Reflex DC 13 half. The save are not actually evil. Should surface
DC is Constitution-based and includes a +1 racial bonus. dwellers do them harm, however, these
Spell-Like Abilities: Once per hour a water mephit can creatures can be formidable enemies.
hurl an acidic blob that functions like Melf ’s acid arrow (caster level A merfolk is about 8 feet long from the top of the
3rd). Once per day it can create a mass of smelly fog that dupli- head to the end of the tail, and weighs about 400 pounds.
cates the effect of a stinking cloud spell (DC 15, caster level 6th). Merfolk speak Common and Aquan.
The save DC is Charisma-based. Most merfolk encountered outside their home are warriors; the
Fast Healing (Ex): A water mephit heals only if it is exposed to information in the statistics block is for one of 1st level.
rain or submerged up to its waist in water.
Skills: A water mephit has a +8 racial bonus on any Swim check COMBAT
to perform some special action or avoid a hazard. It can always Merfolk favor heavy crossbows of shell and coral that fire bolts
choose to take 10 on a Swim check, even if distracted or endan- fashioned from blowfish spines, with an underwater range incre-
gered. It can use the run action while swimming, provided it ment of 30 feet. Merfolk often barrage their enemies before clos- 185
swims in a straight line. ing, when they resort to tridents.

Amphibious (Ex): Merfolk can breathe both air and water, al- It is said that mimics are not natural creatures but were created
though they rarely travel more than a few feet from the water’s edge. long ago by a now-forgotten wizard. Ever since, these terrible
Skills: A merfolk has a +8 racial bonus on any Swim check to things have served to guard treasures.
perform some special action or avoid a hazard. It can always A mimic can have almost any dimensions, but usually is not
choose to take 10 on a Swim check, even if distracted or endan- more than 10 feet long. A typical mimic has a volume of 150 cubic
gered. It can use the run action while swimming, provided it feet (5 feet by 5 feet by 6 feet) and weighs about 4,500 pounds.
swims in a straight line. Mimics speak Common.
The merfolk warrior presented here had the following ability COMBAT
scores before racial adjustments: Str 13, Dex 11, Con 12, Int 10, A mimic often surprises an unsuspecting adventurer, lashing out
Wis 9, Cha 8. with a heavy pseudopod. The creature does not necessarily fight to
the death if it can succeed in extorting treasure or food from a
MERFOLK SOCIETY party.
