METALLIC DRAGONS
information, but usually share it only after long rambling and
Metallic dragons make up the good branch of dragonkind, but hinting for a gift.
they are every bit as aggressive as their evil cousins when threat- At birth, a brass dragon’s scales are a dull, mottled brown. As
ened or challenged. They also tend to be covetous and proud. the dragon gets older, the scales become more brassy until they
reach a warm, burnished appearance. The grand head-plates of a
BRASS DRAGON brass dragon are smooth and metallic, and it sports bladed chin
Dragon (Fire) horns that grow sharper with age. Wings and frills are mottled
Environment: Warm deserts green toward the edges, darkening with age. As the dragon
Organization: Wyrmling, very young, young, juvenile, and grows older, its pupils fade until the eyes resemble molten
young adult: solitary or clutch (2–5); adult, mature adult, old, metal orbs.
very old, ancient, wyrm, or great wyrm: solitary, pair, or family Brass dragons love intense, dry heat and spend most of their
(1–2 and 2–5 offspring) time basking in the desert sun. They are accompanied by a tangy DRAGON
Challenge Ratings: Wyrmling 3; very young 4; young 6; juvenile metallic or sandy odor. They lair in high caves, preferably facing
8; young adult 10; adult 12; mature adult 15; old 17; very old 19; east to enjoy the morning warmth, and their territories always
ancient 20; wyrm 21; great wyrm 23 contain several spots where they can sunbathe and trap unwary
Treasure: Triple standard travelers in conversation.
Alignment: Always chaotic good Brass dragons can and will eat almost anything if the need
Advancement: Wyrmling 5–6 HD; very young 8–9 HD; young arises, but they normally consume very little. They are able to get
11–12 HD; juvenile 14–15 HD; young adult 17–18 HD; adult nourishment from the morning dew, a rare commodity in their
20–21 HD; mature adult 23–24 HD; old 26–27 HD; very old habitat, and have been seen carefully lifting it off plants with their
29–30 HD; ancient 32–33 HD; wyrm 35–36 HD; great wyrm long tongues.
38+ HD Because they share similar habitats, blue dragons are brass drag-
Level Adjustment: Wyrmling +2; very young +3; young +4; ons’ worst enemies. The larger blues have the advantage in one-
juvenile +4; on-one con-
others — frontations, so
Brass dragon brass dragons
The dragon’s head has a usually try to
massive plate at the forehead and evade them until
bladelike horns at the chin. they can rally their
A frill runs the length of the neighbors for a mass
neck, and the dragon has manta- attack. Illus.
like wings. The dragon smells like
sunbaked sand, and its scales glis- Combat by
