MIND FLAYER
Special Attacks: Adhesive, crush
Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., immunity to acid, mimic This strange humanoid-shaped being stands about as tall as a human. Its
shape flesh is rubbery and greenish-mauve, glistening with slime. The creature’s
Saves: Fort +5, Ref +5, Will +6 head looks rather like a four-tentacled octopus, made all the more horri-
Abilities: Str 19, Dex 12, Con 17, Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 10 ble by a pair of bloated white eyes.
Skills: Climb +9, Disguise +13, Listen +8, Spot +8
Feats: Alertness, Lightning Reflexes, Weapon Focus (slam) Mind flayers, also called illithids, are so insidious, diabolical, and
Environment: Underground powerful that all denizens of the dark fear them. They bend others
Organization:Solitary to their will and shatter enemies’ minds.
Challenge Rating: 4 A mind flayer’s mouth, a revolting thing shaped like a
Treasure: 1/10th coins; 50% lamprey’s maw, constantly drips an oily slime when it is
goods; 50% items Mimic not siphoning out the brains of living prey.
Alignment: Usually neutral In addition to being highly intelli-
Advancement: 8–10 HD gent, wholly evil, and terribly
(Large); 11–21 HD (Huge) sadistic, mind flayers are
Level Adjustment: — utterly self-serving. If an
encounter turns against the
What originally appeared to be creature, it flees at once,
an object now shows signs of caring nothing for the
organic life as the creature fate of its companions or
sprouts a lashing pseudopod. servitors.
A mind flayer is about
The mimic is a strange and the same height and
deadly creature that can weight as a human.
change its pigmentation Mind flayers speak Under-
and shape. It uses this ability to common but prefer to commu-
186 lure hapless victims close enough to nicate telepathically.
slay them.

COMBAT Mindflayer only if it can somehow reach the foe’s head.
Mind flayers like to fight from a distance, If a mind flayer begins its turn with at least
using their psionic abilities, particularly one tentacle attached, it can try to attach its
mind blast. If pressed into melee combat, a remaining tentacles with a single grapple check.
mind flayer lashes its enemies with the The opponent can escape with a single successful
tentacles ringing its mouth. grapple check or an Escape Artist check, but the
Mind Blast (Sp): This psionic attack mind flayer gets a +2 circumstance bonus for
is a cone 60 feet long. Anyone caught in every tentacle that was attached at the beginning
this cone must succeed on a DC 17 Will of the opponent’s turn.
save or be stunned for 3d4 rounds. Mind Extract (Ex): A mind flayer that begins
flayers often hunt using this power and its turn with all four tentacles attached
then drag off one or two of their and that makes a successful grapple MINDFLAYER
stunned victims to feed upon. The check automatically extracts the opponent’s
save DC is Charisma-based. This brain, instantly killing that creature. This
ability is the equivalent of a 4th- power is useless against constructs, elemen-
level spell. tals, oozes, plants, and undead. It is not
Psionics (Sp): At will—charm instantly fatal to foes with multiple heads, such
monster (DC 17), detect thoughts (DC as ettins and hydras.
15), levitate, plane shift, suggestion (DC
16). Effective caster level 8th. The MIND FLAYER SORCERER
save DCs are Charisma-based. While many mind flayers train as wizards and
Improved Grab (Ex): To use grow mighty in the arcane arts along that
this ability, a mind flayer must hit a disciplined path, some of the most fear-
Small, Medium, or Large creature some of the illithids are sorcerers, whose
with its tentacle attack. It can mastery of magic seems almost instinctual.
then attempt to start a grapple
as a free action without pro- Combat
voking an attack of opportunity. The save DCs for this mind flayer sorcerer’s
If it wins the grapple check, it mind blast (DC 21) and its psionics (charm mon-
establishes a hold and attaches ster DC 21, detect thoughts DC 19, suggestion DC
the tentacle to the opponent’s 20) are adjusted for its higher Charisma score.
head. A mind flayer can grab The mind flayer sorcerer uses its spells to Illus.
a Huge or larger creature, but protect itself from attack (greater invisibil-
by
