MONSTERS
ing components: base attack bonus (as determined by the crea- In this step, you’ll determine the monster’s attack routine when it MAKING
ture’s type and Hit Dice), size modifier, and Strength modifier for uses a full-round action to make a full attack. This is based on the
melee attacks or Dexterity modifier for ranged attacks. You may individual attacks the monster has available to it (see Attack,
select feats or equipment for the monster that alter the creature’s above), but you need to account for the difference between pri-
attack bonus with a particular weapon; for example, if you give the mary and secondary attacks.
5:
monster a +2 longsword, you will increase its attack bonus with that Natural Weapons: In general, a creature attacks once with
weapon by 2 points. Similarly, Weapon Focus or Weapon Finesse each natural weapon it has. For most monsters, that will be two
might alter the creature’s attack bonus. claws and a bite (or the other way around). Decide which of the
The Attack entry in a statistics block gives the attack and monster’s natural weapons is its primary weapon. A monster
damage bonus for each of the monster’s attacks, if the monster many have two or more primary weapons if it has two or more
decides to use a standard action to make a single attack. You do not of the same natural attack—for example, a treant attacks with
need to account for secondary weapons or multiple attacks with two slams, one for each limb, and both are primary natural
the same weapon when you describe the monster’s individual weapons.
attack options here—any weapon the monster uses to make a Primary weapons use a creature’s full attack bonus, no matter
single attack as a standard action gets the monster’s full attack how many primary weapons it has. The monster applies its full
bonus and damage bonus for Strength. Strength bonus on damage rolls with its primary natural weapons,
Damage: Assign damage values to each of the creature’s natural or 1-1/2 times its Strength bonus if the monster has only one pri-
attacks. The base damage value depends on the creature’s size and mary natural weapon (for example, a wolf’s bite).
the type of attack, as shown on Table 5–1. All other natural weapons are secondary attacks. Reduce the
Particularly tough or weak creatures might have higher or creature’s attack bonus by 5 for all such attacks, no matter how
lower damage values. In general, you can vary the power of a mon- many there are. Creatures with the Multiattack feat take only a –2
ster’s attacks by moving up or down one or two lines on the table. penalty on secondary attacks. A monster applies 1/2 its Strength
For example, a Medium monster’s bite usually has a damage value bonus on damage rolls with its secondary natural weapons.
of 1d6, but it could be as little as 1d3 or as much as 2d6. Use the Manufactured Weapons: Creatures that use weapons follow
1d3 value for a creature with a very small or weak mouth, or the all the rules characters that do, including multiple attacks with the
2d6 value to represent a creature with large or very powerful same weapon and penalties for using two weapons at once.
mouth. Natural and Manufactured Weapons: If a creature has both
Natural Weapons: A creature’s attack gets the creature’s full a manufactured weapon and natural weapons, it usually uses its
damage bonus from Strength, or 1-1/2 times the Strength bonus if manufactured weapon as its primary attack (and receives multi-
it is the creature’s sole natural weapon. ple attacks with that weapon, if its base attack bonus is +6 or
If any of the creature’s attacks also have some special effect higher), and uses its natural weapons as secondary attacks (–5
other than damage (poison, disease, energy drain, paralyzation, penalty on attack rolls, and 1/2 Strength bonus on damage rolls).
and so forth), note it after the attack’s hit point damage—for While a humanoid fighting with two weapons takes a –2 penalty
example, sting (1d6 plus poison). (or worse) on its primary attack, a monster fighting with a hand-
Critical Hits: Unless you decide otherwise, a creature’s natural held weapon and a natural weapon at the same times does not
attack threatens a critical hit on a roll of natural 20 and deals take this penalty—the natural weapon is a secondary attack, and
double damage if a critical hit is confirmed. Very few monsters that’s all.
have better than normal threat ranges or critical multipliers with
their natural weapons. SPECIAL ATTACKS
Weapon-Using Creatures: Creatures that use weapons follow all Decide what special attacks (if any) your monster has. A special
the rules that characters do; two-handed weapons gain 1-1/2 times attack is anything the creature uses offensively to harm or hinder
the creature’s Strength bonus on damage rolls. another creature. Common special attacks include:
Attack Bonus and Target CR: Much like Armor Class, a mon- —Ability damage (temporary)
ster’s attack bonus may make it unplayable at the Challenge —Ability drain (permanent)
Rating you intend. A monster without a high enough attack bonus —Breath weapon
poses no threat to the PCs, and a monster with too high an attack —Change shape
bonus never misses. —Constrict
As a guideline, arrange the components of a monster’s attack —Cursed wound
bonus so that its attack bonus with its primary weapon is equal to —Disease
(target CR × 1.5) + 2. For example, if you are building a CR 5 mon- —Energy drain (negative levels)
ster, an appropriate attack bonus would be (5 × 1.5) + 2, or 9.5, —Fear
which comes out to an attack bonus of +9 or +10. This guideline —Gaze
works best for monsters with few special attacks; if you expect —Improved grab 299
your monster will rely on special attacks rather than pure melee —Paralysis
ability, a better guideline would be an attack bonus equal to (target —Poison

—Pounce special attacks. Possible uses: Mental or perception effects (except
—Powerful charge charms and compulsions; see Charisma).
—Psionics Charisma: Use Charisma for anything pitting the creature’s will
—Ray against an opponent: gaze attacks, charms, compulsions, or energy
—Rend drain. The creature’s Charisma modifier affects the save DC for any
—Roar spell-like abilities it has (no matter what form they take).
—Sonic attack Also use Charisma for any DC that normally would be based on
—Spells an ability score the creature does not have. For example, undead
—Spell-like abilities creatures have no Constitution score, so any poison attacks they
—Summon have would use Charisma to determine the save DC.
—Swallow whole
: 5 —Trample SPECIAL QUALITIES
