MRAWS
Combat Diminutive Magical Beast (Extraplanar, Evil, Swarm)
A bat swarm seeks to surround and attack any warm-blooded prey Hit Dice: 12d10+27 (93 hp)
it encounters. The swarm deals 1d6 points of damage to any crea- Initiative: +10
ture whose space it occupies at the end of its move. Speed: 5 ft. (1 square), fly 40 ft.
Distraction (Ex): Any living creature that begins its turn with Armor Class: 20 (+4 size, +6 Dex), touch 20, flat-footed 14
a swarm in its space must succeed on a DC 11 Fortitude save or be Base Attack/Grapple: +12/—
nauseated for 1 round. The save DC is Constitution-based. Attack: Swarm (3d6 plus poison)
Wounding (Ex): Any living creature damaged by a bat swarm Full Attack: Swarm (3d6 plus poison)
continues to bleed, losing 1 hit point per round thereafter. Multi- Space/Reach: 10 ft./0 ft.
ple wounds do not result in cumulative bleeding loss. The bleed- Special Attacks: Distraction, inhabit, poison
ing can be stopped by a DC 10 Heal check or the application of a Special Qualities: Damage reduction 10/magic, darkvision
cure spell or some other healing magic. 60 ft., hive mind, immune to weapon damage, resistance to
Blindsense (Ex): A bat swarm notices and locates creatures fire 10, low-light vision, swarm traits
within 20 feet. Opponents still have total concealment against the Saves: Fort +10, Ref +14, Will +7
bat swarm (but swarm attacks ignore concealment). Abilities: Str 1, Dex 22, Con 14, Int 6, Wis 13, Cha 9
Skills: A bat swarm has a +4 racial bonus on Listen and Spot Skills: Hide +19, Listen +10, Spot +10
checks. These bonuses are lost if its blindsense is negated. Feats: Ability Focus (poison), Alertness, Improved Initiative,
Iron Will, Toughness
CENTIPEDE SWARM Environment: Bleak Eternity of Gehenna
Diminutive Vermin (Swarm) Organization:Solitary, fright (2–4 swarms), or terror (5–8
Hit Dice: 9d8–9 (31 hp) swarms)
Initiative: +4 Challenge Rating: 8
Speed: 20 ft. (4 squares), climb 20 ft. Treasure: None
Armor Class: 18 (+4 size, +4 Dex), touch 18, flat-footed 14 Alignment: Always lawful evil
Base Attack/Grapple: +6/— Advancement: None
Attack: Swarm (2d6 plus poison) Level Adjustment: —
Full Attack: Swarm (2d6 plus poison)
Space/Reach: 10 ft./0 ft. An angry buzz fills the air around a darting cloud of thousands of ruby-red
Special Attacks: Distraction, poison insects.
Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., immune to weapon
damage, swarm traits, tremorsense 30 ft., vermin traits Hellwasps are vicious, foul-tempered magical insects from the
Saves: Fort +5, Ref +7, Will +3 infernal planes. A single hellwasp resembles a thumb-sized
Abilities: Str 1, Dex 19, Con 8, Int —, Wis 10, Cha 2 normal wasp, except its carapace is gleaming black with ruby-red
Skills: Climb +12, Spot +4 stripes, and its compound eyes are an iridescent green. In swarms,
Feats: Weapon FinesseB hellwasps form a collective hive mind intelligence with infernal
Environment: Underground cunning and bloodlust.
Organization:Solitary, tangle (2–4 swarms), or colony (7–12
swarms) Combat
Challenge Rating: 4 Like any swarm, a hellwasp swarm seeks to surround and attack
Treasure: None any living prey it encounters. A swarm deals 3d6 points of damage
Alignment: Always neutral to any creature whose space it occupies at the end of its move. The
Advancement: None swarm can take over the bodies of its prey and infest both the liv-
Level Adjustment: — ing and the dead, using them as horrible living (or unliving) pup-
pets to accomplish acts of wickedness that a swarm of insects
A glistening, squirming mass of blue-black insects advances like a venomous could never attempt.
army. A hellwasp swarm’s attack is treated as an evil-aligned weapon and
a magic weapon for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction.
A centipede swarm is a crawling mass of voracious centipedes that Distraction (Ex): Any living creature that begins its turn with a
can climb over obstacles to get at prey. hellwasp swarm in its space must succeed on a DC 18 Fortitude save
or be nauseated for 1 round. The save DC is Constitution-based.
Combat Inhabit (Ex): A hellwasp swarm can enter the body of a help-
238 A centipede swarm seeks to surround and attack any living prey it less or dead creature by crawling into its mouth and other orifices.
encounters. A swarm deals 2d6 points of damage to any creature Inhabiting requires 1 minute, and the victim must be Small,
whose space it occupies at the end of its move. Medium, or Large (although four swarms working together can

inhabit a Huge creature). The swarm can abandon the body at any or be nauseated for 1 round. The save DC is Constitution-based.
time, although doing this takes 1 full round. Any attack against Skills: A locust swarm has a +4 racial bonus on Listen and Spot
the host deals half damage to the hellwasp swarm as well, checks.
although the swarm’s resistances and immunities may negate
some or all of this damage. RAT SWARM
If a hellwasp swarm inhabits a dead body, it can restore anima- Tiny Animal (Swarm)
tion to the creature and control its movements, effectively trans- Hit Dice: 4d8 (13 hp)
forming it into a zombie of the appropriate size for as long as the Initiative: +2
swarm remains inside. If a hellwasp swarm inhabits a living Speed: 15 ft. (3 squares), climb 15 ft.
victim, it can neutralize the effects of its own poison and control Armor Class: 14 (+2 size, +2 Dex), touch 14, flat-footed 12
the victim’s movement and actions as if using dominate monster on Base Attack/Grapple: +3/—
the victim. The hellwasps quickly consume a living victim, dealing Attack: Swarm (1d6 plus disease)
2d4 points of Constitution damage per hour they inhabit a body. A Full Attack: Swarm (1d6 plus disease) SWARM
body reduced to Constitution 0 is dead. Space/Reach: 10 ft./0 ft.
A hellwasp-inhabited creature is relatively easy to spot, since its Special Attacks: Disease, distraction
skin crawls with the forms of insects inside. The swarm is intelli- Special Qualities: Half damage from slashing and piercing,
gent enough to attempt to hide beneath loose clothing or a large low-light vision, scent, swarm traits
cloak to keep its presence from being detected. The swarm can Saves: Fort +4, Ref +6, Will +2
attempt a Disguise check to conceal its inhabitation of a host, with Abilities: Str 2, Dex 15, Con 10, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 2
a –4 penalty if currently inhabiting a Small host. Skills: Balance +10, Climb +10, Hide +14, Listen +6, Spot +7,
Aremove disease orhealspell cast on an inhabited victim forces Swim +10
the hellwasp swarm to abandon its host. Feats: Alertness, Weapon Finesse
Poison (Ex): Injury, Fortitude DC 18, initial and secondary Environment: Any
damage 1d6 Dex. The save DC is Constitution-based. Organization:Solitary, pack (2–4 swarms), or infestation (7–12
Hive Mind (Ex): Any hellwasp swarm with at least 1 hit point swarms)
per Hit Die (or 12 hit points, for a standard hellwasp swarm) forms Challenge Rating: 2
a hive mind, giving it an Intelligence of 6. When a hellwasp swarm Treasure: None
is reduced below this hit point threshold, it becomes mindless. Alignment: Always neutral
Advancement: None
LOCUST SWARM Level Adjustment: —
Diminutive Vermin (Swarm)
Hit Dice: 6d8–6 (21 hp) A squirming, squeaking horde of feral rats surges closer, teeth glistening in
Initiative: +4 their slavering jaws.
Speed: 10 ft. (2 squares), fly 30 ft. (poor)
Armor Class: 18 (+4 size, +4 Dex), touch 18, flat-footed 14 A rat swarm is a mass of teeming, famished, disease-ridden rats. A
Base Attack/Grapple: +4/— swarm is composed of individuals very much like the rat described
Attack: Swarm (2d6) on page 278, but in such great numbers, rats can become implaca-
Full Attack: Swarm (2d6) ble hunters capable of killing a human with hundreds of bites.
Space/Reach: 10 ft./0 ft. A rat swarm sometimes can be found in the sewers and founda-
Special Attacks: Distraction tions of human cities.
Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., immune to weapon
damage, swarm traits, vermin traits Combat
Saves: Fort +4, Ref +6, Will +2 A rat swarm seeks to surround and attack any warm-blooded prey
Abilities: Str 1, Dex 19, Con 8, Int —, Wis 10, Cha 2 it encounters. A swarm deals 1d6 points of damage to any creature
Skills: Listen +4, Spot +4 whose space it occupies at the end of its move.
Feats: — Disease (Ex): Filth fever—swarm attack, Fortitude DC 12,
Environment: Temperate plains incubation period 1d3 days, damage 1d3 Dex and 1d3 Con. The
Organization:Solitary, cloud (2–7 swarms), or plague (11–20 save DC is Constitution-based.
swarms) Distraction (Ex): Any living creature that begins its turn with
Challenge Rating: 3 a swarm in its square must succeed on a DC 12 Fortitude save or be
Treasure: None nauseated for 1 round. The save DC is Constitution-based.
Alignment: Always neutral Skills: A rat swarm has a +4 racial bonus on Hide and Move
Advancement: None Silently checks, and a +8 racial bonus on Balance, Climb, and
Level Adjustment: — Swim checks. A rat swarm can always choose to take 10 on all
Climb checks, even if rushed or threatened.
A whirling, clacking cloud of voracious, grasshopperlike insects flutters A rat swarm uses its Dexterity modifier instead of its Strength
closer, filling the air with a high-pitched buzz. modifier for Climb and Swim checks.
A rat swarm has a +8 racial bonus on any Swim check to perform
A locust swarm is a cloud of thousands of winged vermin that some special action or avoid a hazard. It can always choose to take
devours any organic material in its path. 10 on a Swim check, even if distracted or endangered. It can use the
run action while swimming, provided it swims in a straight line.
Combat
A locust swarm surrounds and attacks any living prey it encoun- SPIDER SWARM
ters. A swarm deals 2d6 points of damage to any creature whose Diminutive Vermin (Swarm)
space it occupies at the end of its move. Hit Dice: 2d8 (9 hp) 239
Distraction (Ex): Any living creature that begins its turn with Initiative: +3
a locust swarm in its space must succeed on a DC 12 Fortitude save Speed: 20 ft. (4 squares), climb 20 ft.

Armor Class: 17 (+4 size, +3 Dex), touch 17, flat-footed 14 Feats: Alertness, Awesome Blow, Blind-Fight, Cleave, Combat
Base Attack/Grapple: +1/— Reflexes, Dodge, Great Cleave, Improved Bull Rush,
Attack: Swarm (1d6 plus poison) Improved Initiative, Iron Will, Power Attack, Toughness (6)
Full Attack: Swarm (1d6 plus poison) Environment: Any
Space/Reach: 10 ft./0 ft. Organization:Solitary
Special Attacks: Distraction, poison Challenge Rating: 20
Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., swarm traits, tremorsense Treasure: None
30 ft., vermin traits Alignment: Always neutral
Saves: Fort +3, Ref +3, Will +0 Advancement: 49+ HD (Colossal)
Abilities: Str 1, Dex 17, Con 10, Int —, Wis 10, Cha 2 Level Adjustment: —
Skills: Climb +11, Listen +4, Spot +4
EUQSARRATwolhctirC Environment: Warm forests This scaly biped seems about as tall as a five-story building. It carries itself
Organization:Solitary, tangle (2–4 swarms), or colony (7–12 like a bird of prey, leaning well forward and using its powerful, lashing tail
swarms) for balance. It has two horns on its head and a thick, reflective carapace
Challenge Rating: 1 on its back.
Treasure: None
Alignment: Always neutral The legendary tarrasque—fortunately, only one exists—is possi-
Advancement: None bly the most dreaded monster of all (except for the largest drag-
Level Adjustment: — ons). None can predict where and when the creature will strike
next.
A horrible, scuttling army of hand-sized spiders scrambles forward. The location of the tarrasque’s lair is a mystery, and the beast
remains dormant much of the time. Its torporous slumber usually
A spider swarm is a scuttling horde of venomous spiders. lasts 6d4 months before it leaves its lair for a brief hunting foray
lasting 1d3 days. Once every decade or so, the monster is particu-
Combat larly active, staying awake for 1d2 weeks. Thereafter, it slumbers
A spider swarm seeks to surround and attack any living prey it for at least 4d6 years unless disturbed.
encounters. A swarm deals 1d6 points of damage to any creature When active, the tarrasque is a perfect engine of destruction. It
whose space it occupies at the end of its move. rampages across the land eating everything in its path, including
Distraction (Ex): Any living creature that begins its turn with a plants, animals, humanoids, and even towns. Nothing is safe, and
spider swarm in its space must succeed on a DC 11 Fortitude save entire communities prefer to flee the ravening tarrasque rather
or be nauseated for 1 round. The save DC is Constitution-based. than face its power.
Poison (Ex): Injury, Fortitude DC 11, initial and secondary Many legends surround the tarrasque’s origins and purpose.
damage 1d3 Str. The save DC is Constitution-based. Some hold it to be an abomination unleashed by ancient, forgotten
Skills: A spider swarm has a +4 racial bonus on Hide and Spot gods to punish all of nature, while others tell of a conspiracy be-
.C checks and a +8 racial bonus on Climb checks. It uses its Dexterity mod- tween evil wizards or merciless elemental powers. These tales are
yb ifier instead of its Strength modifier for Climb checks. It can always mere speculation, however, and the creature’s true nature will prob-
.sullI choose to take 10 on a Climb check, even if rushed or threatened. ably remain a mystery. The tarrasque isn’t in the habit of explaining
itself, and it rarely leaves any living witnesses in its wake.
The tarrasque is 70 feet long and 50 feet tall, and it
