NAIMROF
Space/Reach: 10ft./5ft. 10ft./5ft.
SpecialAttacks: Poison,spell-likeabilities Spell-likeabilities,spells
SpecialQualities: Fasthealing2,hivemind,immunitytopoison, Fasthealing2,hivemind,immunitytopoison,
petrification,andcold,resistancetoelectricity10, petrification,andcold,resistancetoelectricity10,
fire10,andsonic10,spellresistance25 fire10,andsonic10,spellresistance30,telepathy
Saves: Fort+12,Ref+12,Will+11 Fort+19,Ref—,Will+19
Abilities: Str19,Dex18,Con18,Int16,Wis16,Cha17 Str—,Dex—,Con20,Int20,Wis20,Cha21
Skills: Climb+19,Concentration+18,Diplomacy+20, Appraise+28,Bluff+28,Concentration+28,
Hide+15,Knowledge(anyone)+18,Listen+18, Diplomacy+32,Disguise+5(+7acting),Intimidate+30,
MoveSilently+19,Search+18,SenseMotive+18, Knowledge(anythree)+28,Listen+30,SenseMotive
Spot+18,Survival+3(+5followingtracks) +28,Spellcraft+28(+30scrolls),Spot+30,UseMagic
Device+28(+30scrolls)
Feats: Dodge,ImprovedInitiative,Mobility,Multiattack, Alertness,EschewMaterialsB,GreatFortitude,Improved
SpringAttack Counterspell,IronWill,itemcreationfeat(anyone),
MaximizeSpell,SpellFocus(enchantment)
Environment ClockworkNirvanaofMechanus ClockworkNirvanaofMechanus
Organization: Solitary,team(2–4),orplatoon(1plus Hive(1plus100–400workers,
7–18workersand6–11warriors) 11–40warriors,4–7taskmasterswith1
dominatedcreatureeach,and5–8myrmarchs)
ChallengeRating: 10 17
Treasure: Standard Doublestandard
Alignment: Alwayslawfulneutral Alwayslawfulneutral
Advancement: 13–18HD(Large);19–24HD(Huge) 21–30HD(Huge);31–40HD(Gargantuan)
LevelAdjustment: — —
Taskmasters resemble warriors with no mandibles—no apparent alone. One dominated nonformian creature always accompanies
mouth at all, in fact. These formians communicate only telepathi- it (choose or determine randomly any creature of CR 4).
cally and derive sustenance from the mental energies of those Poison (Ex): Injury, Fortitude DC 15, initial and secondary
they dominate. damage 1d6 Str. The save DC is Constitution-based.
A taskmaster’s duty is to gather and control nonformians for in-
tegration into the hive. Put simply, taskmasters enslave other crea- MYRMARCH
tures. They do not enjoy controlling others but believe it is the This creature is about the size of a light horse. It looks like an ant, but
only efficient way to spread the hive to all places, a desirable end holds its head and thorax upright. Its mouth features powerful-looking
for all rational creatures. If a taskmaster can manage to “conscript” mandibles, and it wears an elaborate bronze helmet. The creature has
a laborer without using its dominate monster ability, it will do so. humanlike shoulders and arms ending in humanlike hands. Its abdomen
Those few souls who have escaped refer to formian hive- bears a stinger.
cities as “work pits.” While formians are not cruel, they are still
emotionless—and pitiless. Myrmarchs are the elite of formian society. Much more than those
A taskmaster is about the same size as a warrior. beneath them, these creatures are individuals, with goals, desires,
and creative thought. Very rarely do these thoughts conflict with
Combat the wishes of the queen, though—most myrmarchs are still very
Taskmasters rely on their dominated slaves to fight for them if at loyal to her.
all possible. If necessary, though, they can defend themselves with Myrmarchs are commanders in formian armies and leaders in
claws and a poison sting. formian communities. They are the hands of the queen, carrying
A formian taskmaster’s natural weapons, as well as any weapons out her direct orders and making sure everything goes as she
it wields, are treated as lawful-aligned for the purpose of overcom- desires. Myrmarchs also have a secondary role: stamping out chaos
ing damage reduction. wherever and whenever they can. Those who foment disorder,
Dominate Monster (Su): A taskmaster can use a dominate and particularly creatures that revere or exemplify it (such as
monsterability as the spell from a 10th-level caster (Will DC 17 slaadi), are the hated foes of myrmarchs.
negates), although the subject may be of any kind and may be up A myrmarch is about is about 7 feet long and about 5-1/2 feet
to Large size. Creatures that successfully save cannot be affected high at the front. It weighs about 1,500 pounds. Its claws are
by the same taskmaster’s dominate monster ability for 24 hours. A capable of fine manipulation, like human hands. Each myrmarch
110 single taskmaster can dominate up to four subjects at a time. The wears a bronze helm to signify its position (the more elaborate the
save DC is Charisma-based. helm, the more prestigious the position).
Dominated Creature (Ex): A taskmaster is never encountered Myrmarchs speak Formian and Common.

Combat repulsion; 7th—summon monster VII, vision, waves of exhaustion;
Myrmarchs’ claws are like hands and thus serve no combat pur- 8th—prismatic wall, temporal stasis.
pose. Myrmarchs occasionally employ javelins for ranged attacks, Spell-Like Abilities: At will—calm emotions (DC 17), charm
coated with poison from their own stingers. monster (DC 19), clairaudience/clairvoyance, detect chaos, detect
They fight intelligently, aiding those under them (if any such thoughts, dictum (DC 22), divination, hold monster (DC 20), magic
are present) and commanding them through the hive mind. If circle against chaos, order’s wrath (DC 19), shield of law (DC 23), true
chaotic creatures are present, however, a myrmarch is single- seeing. Caster level 17th. The save DCs are Charisma-based.
minded in its quest to destroy them. Telepathy (Su): The queen can communicate telepathically
A formian myrmarch’s natural weapons, as well as any weapons with any intelligent creature within 50 miles whose presence she
it wields, are treated as lawful-aligned for the purpose of overcom- is aware of.
ing damage reduction.
