NROX
cruelty. Xorns speak Common and Terran.
Some xills are barbaric and fierce; others are more civilized
creatures who rely on brutal order. COMBAT
A xill stands 4 to 5 feet tall and weighs about 100 pounds. Xorns do not attack fleshly beings except to defend themselves
Xills speak Infernal. or their property, since they cannot digest meat. Xorns are indif-
ferent to creatures of the Material Plane—with the
COMBAT sole exception of anyone carrying a significant
Xills are dangerous opponents, Xorn amount of precious metals or minerals,
attacking with all four limbs. which xorns eat. They can smell food up to 20
More civilized ones use feet away. A xorn can be quite aggres-
weapons, usually fighting sive when seeking food, especially on
with two at a time so as to leave the Material Plane, where such suste-
two claws free for grab attacks. nance is harder to find than it is on its
Xills typically lie in wait on native plane.
the Ethereal Plane for suitable A xorn’s favorite mode of
prey to happen by, then attack is to wait just beneath a
ambush it using their stone surface until a foe
planewalk ability. They make full comes within reach, then
use of their Tumble skill in emerge suddenly. Groups of xorns
combat: Usually, one or two often send one of their number to the sur-
distract physically powerful face to negotiate for food while the remain-
enemies by attacking, then der position themselves for a surprise attack.
assuming a defensive stance All-Around Vision (Ex): A xorn’s symmet-
while their fellows maneuver rically placed eyes allow it to look in any
to advantage. direction, providing a +4 racial bonus on
Implant (Ex): As a stan- Spot and Search checks. A xorn can’t be flanked.
dard action, a xill can lay eggs inside a paralyzed creature. The Earth Glide (Ex): A xorn can glide through stone, dirt, or
young emerge about 90 days later, literally devouring the host almost any other sort of earth except metal as easily as a fish swims
from inside. A remove disease spell rids a victim of the egg, as does a through water. Its burrowing leaves behind no tunnel or hole, nor
DC 25 Heal check. If the check fails, the healer can try again, but does it create any ripple or other signs of its presence. A move earth
each attempt (successful or not) deals 1d4 points of damage to the spell cast on an area containing a burrowing xorn flings the xorn
patient. back 30 feet, stunning the creature for 1 round unless it succeeds
Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, a xill must hit with one on a DC 15 Fortitude save.
or more claw attacks. It can then attempt to start a grapple as a free
action without provoking an attack of opportunity. It receives a +2
