OOZE
The pudding’s acidic touch deals 21 points of damage per round
Oozes are amorphous creatures that live only to eat. They inhabit to wooden or metal objects, but the ooze must remain in contact
underground areas throughout the world, scouring caverns, ruins, with the object for 1 full round to deal this damage.
and dungeons in search of organic matter—living or dead. Constrict (Ex): A black pudding deals automatic slam and acid
damage with a successful grapple check. The opponent’s clothing
COMBAT and armor take a –4 penalty on Reflex saves against the acid.
Oozes attack any creatures they encounter. They lash out with Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, a black pudding must
pseudopods or simply engulf opponents with their bodies, which hit with its slam attack. It can then attempt to start a grapple as a
secrete acids that help them catch or digest their prey. free action without provoking an attack of opportunity. If it wins
Blindsight (Ex): An ooze’s entire body is a primitive sensory the grapple check, it establishes a hold and can constrict.
organ that can ascertain prey by scent and vibration within 60 feet. Split (Ex): Slashing and piercing weapons deal no damage to a
black pudding. Instead the creature splits into two identical pud-
BLACK PUDDING dings, each with half of the original’s current hit points (round OOZE
This creature resembles nothing so much as a roundish blob of inky down). A pudding with 10 hit points or less cannot be further split
black goo. and dies if reduced to 0 hit points.
Skills: A black pudding has a +8 racial bonus on Climb checks
Black puddings slither and undulate along underground terrain and can always choose to take 10 on a Climb check, even if rushed
seeking sustenance. or threatened.
The typical black pudding measures 15 feet across and 2 feet
thick. It weighs about 18,000 pounds. ELDER BLACK PUDDING
The most ancient black puddings are vast pools of inky
Combat death.
A black pudding attacks by grab-
bing and squeezing their prey. Combat
Gelatinous cube
Acid (Ex): The creature se- The save DC for the elder
cretes a digestive acid that black pudding’s acid attack
dissolves organic material (DC 29) is adjusted for its
and metal quickly, but does additional Hit Dice and
not affect stone. Any higher Constitution score.
melee hit or constrict
attack deals acid dam- GELATINOUS CUBE Illus.
age, and the opponent’s Huge Ooze
armor and clothing dis- Hit Dice: 4d10+32 (54 hp) by
