OTYUGH
and rivalries between them and warrior leaders sometimes tear a
tribe apart. Large Aberration
Orc society is patriarchal: Females are prized possessions at best Hit Dice: 6d8+9 (36 hp)
HGUYTOdoowkcoL and chattel at worst. Male orcs pride themselves on the number of Initiative: +0
females they own and male children they sire, as well as their Speed: 20 ft. (4 squares)
battle prowess, wealth, and amount of territory. They wear their Armor Class: 17 (–1 size, +8 natural), touch 9, flat-footed 17
battle scars proudly and ritually scar themselves to mark signifi- Base Attack/Grapple: +4/+8
cant achievements and turning points in their lives. Attack: Tentacle +4 melee (1d6)
An orc lair may be a cave, a series of wooden huts, a fort, or even Full Attack: 2 tentacles +4 melee (1d6) and bite –2 melee (1d4)
a large city built above and below ground. A tribe includes females Space/Reach: 10 ft./10 ft. (15 ft. with tentacle)
(as many as there are males), young (half as many as there are Special Attacks: Constrict 1d6, disease, improved grab
females), and slaves (about one for every ten males). Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., scent
The chief orc deity is Gruumsh, a one-eyed god who tolerates Saves: Fort +3, Ref +2, Will +6
no sign of peaceability among his people. Abilities: Str 11, Dex 10, Con 13, Int 5, Wis 12, Cha 6
Skills: Hide –1*, Listen +6, Spot +6
ORCS AS CHARACTERS Feats: Alertness, Toughness, Weapon Focus (tentacle)
Orc leaders tend to be barbarians. Orc clerics worship Gruumsh. Environment: Underground
An orc cleric has access to two of the following domains: Chaos, Organization:Solitary, pair, or cluster (3–4)
Evil, Strength, or War (favored weapon: any spear). Most orc spell- Challenge Rating: 4
casters are adepts. Orc adepts favor spells that deal damage. Treasure: Standard
Orc Traits (Ex): Orcs possess the following racial traits. Alignment: Usually neutral
— +4 Strength, –2 Intelligence, –2 Wisdom, –2 Charisma. Advancement: 7–8 HD (Large); 9–18 HD (Huge)
—An orc’s base land speed is 30 feet. Level Adjustment: —
—Darkvision out to 60 feet.
—Light Sensitivity: Orcs are dazzled in bright sunlight or This creature looks like a bloated ovoid covered with a rocklike skin. A
.T within the radius of a daylightspell. vinelike stalk about 2 feet long rises from the top of the disgusting body
yb —Automatic Languages: Common, Orc. Bonus Languages: and bears the two eyes. Its mouth—little more than a wide gash filled
.sullI Dwarven, Giant, Gnoll, Goblin, Undercommon. with razor-sharp teeth—is in the center of the mass. The creature shuffles
—Favored Class: Barbarian. about on three thick, sturdy legs and has two long tentacles covered in
rough, thorny protrusions. The tentacles end in leaflike appendages
The orc warrior presented here had the following ability scores covered in more thorny growths.
before racial adjustments: Str 13, Dex 11, Con 12, Int 10, Wis 9,
Cha 8.
Otyugh
