P
AH M O that are less common (for example, the mind flayer’s mind blast where else. Common special qualities include:
M and extract attacks). In general, one or two special attacks for any —Blindsense
C monster is enough—monsters usually don’t get the chance to use —Blindsight
more than a couple of special abilities in the course of a single en- —Damage reduction
counter, so creating a number of special attacks simply makes the —Fast healing
monster more difficult to use in play. —Frightful presence
Each special attack should include the type of saving throw the —Immunity to energy or a certain attack form
attack allows (if any) and the DC of the save. The saving throw —Regeneration
type depends on the nature of the attack, as follows: —Resistance to energy
—Fortitude saving throws apply to attacks on the defender’s —Scent
vitality: poison, magic that causes instant death, level draining, or —Spell immunity
magic that causes physical transformation. —Spell resistance
—Reflex saving throws apply to massive attacks such as a —Subtype features (for example, cold subtype)
wizard’s fireball or a damage-dealing breath weapon. —Tremorsense
—Will saving throws apply to mental influence and domina- —Turn resistance
tion as well as any magical effect that doesn’t fall into one of the —Type traits (for example, construct traits)
previous two categories. These abilities are described in Chapter 7: Glossary. A number
of monsters have less common special qualities that are not listed
Calculating Saving Throw DCs here. As with special attacks, limit the number of special qualities
The formula for save DCs is: 10 + 1/2 the creature’s Hit Dice + rel- you give a monster, because you’ll have an easier time running the
evant ability score modifier. The relevant ability score depends on monster in play.
the type of attack, as follows:
Strength: Any application of force, crushing, binding, or con- SAVING THROWS
striction. Example: trample. Determine the creature’s saving throw bonuses. The creature’s base
Dexterity: Movement, movement restrictions, hitting with a saving throw bonuses depend on its type and Hit Dice. Include all
missile, entanglement. Example: entangle. adjustments that apply to each save, provided they apply all the
Constitution: Almost anything that comes from the creature’s body, time (such as ability score modifiers and racial bonuses). Condi-
such as poison or breath weapons. Examples: breath weapon, poison. tional saving throw bonuses should be noted in the creature’s Spe-
Intelligence: Usually not used to determine save DCs for mon- cial Qualities entry and explained in the creature’s description.
sters’ special attacks. Possible uses: illusion effects. Saving Throws and Target CR: In general, a creature’s good
Wisdom: Usually not used to determine save DCs for monsters’ saving throw bonus should be around (target CR × 1.5), while its
pqqqqrs
BEHIND THE CURTAIN: resistance lower. For each point of difference, you’ll change the chance
SPELL RESISTANCE AND DAMAGE REDUCTION of successfully overcoming spell resistance by 5%. For example, a 12th-
Too much spell resistance or damage reduction can make a monster level caster has a 45% chance to overcome spell resistance 24, and no
virtually unbeatable at the Challenge Rating you’re aiming for. Too little, chance to overcome spell resistance 33.
and the monster might as well not have any at all, since any character Damage Reduction: Assigning a damage reduction value can be
will have the caster level or magic weaponry necessary to penetrate the tricky. Setting the value too high can make a creature virtually immune
creature’s defense. to physical attacks, On the other hand, most player characters carry
Spell Resistance: If you choose to give your monster this ability, some magic weapons, so setting the value too low can result in an inef-
you’ll probably want to set the resistance number equal to the crea- fective ability.
ture’s CR + 11. This means that a character of a level equal to the crea- Recommended
ture’s will have a 50% chance to overcome the monster’s spell resist- Target CR Damage Reduction
ance (barring the Spell Penetration feat). For example, a 12th-level 0–2 None
character has a 50% chance to overcome spell resistance 23, so 23 is 3–5 5
a good spell resistance number for a CR 12 creature. 6–13 10
You may need to adjust a creature’s spell resistance number after 14–20 15
you finally settle on a CR for the creature. Remember, even if player characters can hurt the monster, lesser crea-
300 If you want a highly magic-resistant creature, set the monster’s spell tures in the game world often cannot hurt the creature, nor can the
resistance higher than CR + 11. For lesser resistance, set the spell player character’s cohorts or any creatures they summon.
pqqqqrs

poor saving throws should be roughly equal to its target CR. For ture does not qualify, consider altering the creature so that it qual-
example, if you are designing a CR 6 monster, a good save bonus of ifies for the feat, or assign the feat as a bonus feat. (It is acceptable
+9 and a poor save bonus of +6 should give the monster a decent for a creature to have a bonus feat for which it does not meet the
chance to save against the player characters’ attacks without mak- prerequisites.)
ing their attacks ineffectual. Assign feats with your creature concept in mind, just as you did
The easiest way to manipulate a creature’s save bonuses is to for skills. For example, spellcasting creatures can benefit from
assign a feat that increases a save bonus (for example, Iron Will). If Combat Casting. Creatures that depend on their senses to locate
you don’t want to give the monster the feat, but you still want to prey or alert them to danger can benefit from Alertness. Creatures
increase the save bonus, then you need to adjust the ability score that attack from ambush can use Improved Initiative. Any crea-
from which the save bonus is derived. ture can benefit from the feats that improve saving throws (Great
Fortitude, Lightning Reflexes, and Iron Will).
SKILLS Weak creatures can often benefit from Weapon Finesse, CH
