PACRETTE
Special Attacks: Poison, web Ettercaps are very fond of spiders and often keep them as others
Special Qualities: Low-light vision keep bees. Some ettercaps have a number of monstrous spiders as
Saves: Fort +4, Ref +4, Will +6 pets, which are as loyal to it as a dog is to a human master.
Abilities: Str 14, Dex 17, Con 13, Int 6, Wis 15, Cha 8 An ettercap is about 6 feet tall and weighs about 200 pounds.
Skills: Climb +10, Craft (trapmaking) +4, Hide +9, Listen +4, Ettercaps speak Common.
Spot +8
Feats: Great Fortitude, Multiattack COMBAT
Environment: Warm forests Ettercaps are not brave creatures, but their cunning traps often
Organization:Solitary, pair, or troupe (1–2 plus 2–4 Medium ensure that the enemy never draws a weapon. When an ettercap
monstrous spiders) does engage its enemies, it attacks with its keen-edged claws
Challenge Rating: 3 and venomous bite. It usually will not come within melee reach
Treasure: Standard of any foe that is still able to move.
Alignment: Usually neutral evil Poison (Ex): Injury, Fortitude DC 15, initial damage 1d6 Dex,
Advancement: 6–7 HD (Medium); 8–15 HD (Large) secondary damage 2d6 Dex. The save DC is Constitution based
Level Adjustment: +4 and includes a +2 racial bonus.
Web (Ex): An ettercap can throw a web eight times per day. This
is similar to an attack with a net but has a maximum range of 50
feet, with a range increment of 10 feet, and is effective against tar-
gets of up to Medium size. The web anchors the target in place,
allowing no movement.
An entangled creature can escape with a DC 13 Escape Artist
check or burst the web with a DC 17 Strength check. The check
DCs are Constitution-based, and the Strength check DC
includes a +4 racial bonus. The web has 6 hit points, hardness 0,
and takes double damage from fire.
Ettercap Ettercaps can also create sheets of sticky webbing from 5 to
60 feet square. They usually position these to snare flying crea-
tures but can also try to trap prey on the ground. Approaching
creatures must succeed on a DC 20 Spot check to notice a web, or
they stumble into it and become trapped as though by a success-
ful web attack. Attempts to escape or burst the webbing receive a
+5 bonus if the trapped creature has something to walk on or
grab while pulling free. Each 5-foot-square section has 6 hit
points, hardness 0, and takes double damage from fire.
An ettercap can move across its own sheet web at its climb
speed and can determine the exact location of any creature
touching the web.
Skills: Ettercaps have a +4 racial bonus on Craft (trapmak-
ing), Hide, and Spot checks. They have a +8 racial bonus on
Climb checks and can always choose to take 10 on Climb checks,
even if rushed or threatened.
