RAEBLWO
(1d8+2) Space/Reach: 10 ft./5 ft.
Space/Reach: 10 ft./5 ft. Special Attacks: —
Special Attacks: Improved grab Special Qualities: Darkvision
Special Qualities: Scent 60 ft., low-light vision, scent,
Saves: Fort +9, Ref +5, Will +2 spell-like abilities
Abilities: Str 21, Dex 12, Con Saves: Fort +7, Ref +6, Will +4
21, Int 2, Wis 12, Cha 10 Abilities: Str 18, Dex 15, Con
Skills: Listen +8, Spot +8 16, Int 10, Wis 13, Cha 13
Feats: Alertness, Track Skills: Diplomacy +3, Listen +8,
Environment: Temperate Sense Motive +9, Spot +8
forests Feats: Flyby Attack, Iron Will
Organization:Solitary, pair, Environment: Temperate
or pack (3–8) forests
Challenge Rating: 4 Organization: Solitary, pair,
Treasure: None or herd (6–10)
Alignment: Always neutral Challenge Rating: 3
Advancement: 6–8 HD Treasure: None
(Large); 9–15 HD (Huge) Alignment: Usually chaotic
Level Adjustment: — good
Advancement: 5–8 HD (Large)
This creature has a thick, shaggy Level Adjustment: +2 (cohort)
coat of feathers and fur. Its body is
like a bear’s, but it has an avian This creature looks like a horse but has two large,
head with big, round eyes and a feathered wings. Its coat and wings are pure white.
hooked beak. Owlbear
The pegasus is a magnificent winged horse that sometimes serves
Owlbears are extraordinarily vicious predators with a reputation the cause of good. Though highly prized as aerial steeds, pegasi are
for ferocity, aggression, and sheer ill temper. They tend to attack wild and shy creatures not easily tamed.
nearly anything that moves without provocation. Pegasi mate for life, building their nests in high, remote loca-
Scholars have long debated the origins of the owlbear. The most tions. A mated pair have either 1–2 eggs or 1–2 young in their
common theory is that a demented wizard created the first speci- nest.
men by crossing a giant owl with a bear. An owlbear’s coat ranges A typical pegasus stands 6 feet high at the shoulder, weighs
in color from brown-black to yellowish brown; its beak is a dull 1,500 pounds, and has a wingspan of 20 feet. Rumors tell of some
ivory color. A full-grown male can stand as tall as 8 feet and weigh specimens that are brown or black instead of white.
up to 1,500 pounds. Adventurers who have survived encounters Pegasi cannot speak, but they understand Common.
with the creature often speak of the bestial madness they
glimpsed in its red-rimmed eyes. COMBAT
Owlbears inhabit wilderness areas, making their lairs within Pegasi attack with their sharp hooves and powerful bite. Mated
tangled forests or in shallow underground caverns. They can be pairs and herds attack as a team, fighting to the death to defend
active during the day or night, depending on the habits of the their eggs and young.
available prey. Adults live in mated pairs and hunt in packs, leav- Spell-Like Abilities: At will—detect good anddetect evil within a
ing their young in the lair. A lair usually has 1d6 young, fetching a 60-foot radius. Caster level 5th.
price of 3,000 gp each in many civilized areas. While owlbears Skills: Pegasi have a +4 racial bonus on Listen and Spot checks.
cannot be domesticated, they can still be placed in strategically
important areas as free-roaming guardians. Professional trainers TRAINING A PEGASUS
charge 2,000 gp to rear or train an owlbear (DC 23 for a young crea- Although intelligent, a pegasus requires training before it can bear
ture, DC 30 for an adult). a rider in combat. To be trained, a pegasus must have a friendly
attitude toward the trainer (this can be achieved through a suc-
COMBAT cessful Diplomacy check). Training a friendly pegasus requires six
Owlbears attack prey—any creature bigger than a mouse—on weeks of work and a DC 25 Handle Animal check. Riding a pega-
sight, always fighting to the death. They slash with claws and beak, sus requires an exotic saddle. A pegasus can fight while carrying a
trying to grab their prey and rip it apart. rider, but the rider cannot also attack unless he or she succeeds on
206 Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, an owlbear must hit a Ride check.
with a claw attack. It can then attempt to start a grapple as a free Pegasus eggs are worth 2,000 gp each on the open market, while
action without provoking an attack of opportunity. young are worth 3,000 gp per head. Pegasi mature at the same rate

This creature looks like a brown and greenish-brown mass with a
cluster of nodules atop the main mass, though it is visible
only when dead. A cluster of nodules atop the main
mass serve as sensory organs. The creature feeds and
attacks with a gaping maw lined with rows of teeth.
Four stumpy legs support the creature and allow it
to move about.
This ambulatory fungus is naturally invis-
ible, making it a feared predator among
subterranean inhabitants.
