REDLOHEB
Saves: Fort +5, Ref +4, Will +9 Base Attack/Grapple: +8/+12
Abilities: Str 8, Dex 14, Con 16, Int 15, Wis 15, Cha 13 Attack: Eye rays +9 ranged touch and bite +2 melee (2d4)
Skills: Hide +11, Knowledge (arcana) +11, Listen +4, Search +15, Full Attack: Eye rays +9 ranged touch and bite +2 melee (2d4)
Spot +17, Survival +2 (+4 following tracks) Space/Reach: 10 ft./5 ft.
Feats: AlertnessB, Flyby Attack, Improved Initiative, Iron Will Special Attacks: Eye rays
Environment: Cold hills Special Qualities: All-around vision, antimagic cone, darkvision
Organization: Solitary, pair, or cluster (3–6) 60 ft., flight
Challenge Rating: 6 Saves: Fort +9, Ref +5, Will +11
Treasure: Standard Abilities: Str 10, Dex 14, Con 18, Int 17, Wis 15, Cha 15
Alignment: Usually lawful evil Skills: Hide +12, Knowledge (arcana) +17, Listen +18, Search
Advancement: 7–12 HD (Medium); 13–18 HD (Large) +21, Spot +22, Survival +2 (+4 following tracks)
Level Adjustment: — Feats: AlertnessB, Flyby Attack, Great Fortitude, Improved
Initiative, Iron Will
The gauth, sometimes known as the lesser beholder, is a 4-foot Environment: Cold hills
wide orb dominated by a central eye. Six smaller eyes on stalks Organization: Solitary, pair, or cluster (3–6)
sprout from the top of its body. It is a rapacious and tyrannical Challenge Rating: 13
creature that seeks to exact tribute from anything weaker than Treasure: Double standard
itself, and often attacks adventurers simply to acquire their wealth. Alignment: Usually lawful evil
Eye Rays (Su): Each of a gauth’s six eye rays resembles a spell Advancement: 12–16 HD (Large); 17–33 HD
cast by an 8th-level caster. Each eye ray has a range of 100 feet (Huge)
and a save DC of 14. The save DCs are Charisma-based. The six Level Adjustment: —
eye rays include:
Sleep: This works like the spell, except that it A beholder is
affects one creature an 8-foot-wide orb
with any number Beholder dominated by a cen-
of Hit Dice (Will tral eye and a large, toothy
negates). Gauths maw. Ten smaller eyes on
like to use this ray stalks sprout from the top of
against warriors and the orb.
other physically power-
ful creatures. Combat
Inflict Mod- Beholders often attack with-
erate Wounds: out provocation. Though
This works not powerful physically, they
like the spell, often plow right into groups
causing 2d8+8 of opponents to use as many
points of damage of their eyes as they
(Will half ). can. When closing with
Dispel Magic: This works an enemy, a beholder
like the targeted dispel func- tries to cause as much
tion of the spell. The disruption and confusion
gauth’s dispel check is as possible.
1d20+8. Eye Rays (Su): Each
Scorching Ray: This works like of a beholder’s ten eye
the spell, dealing 4d6 points of rays resembles a spell cast by a 13th-
fire damage (no save). A gauth cre- level caster. Each eye ray has a
ates only one fiery ray per use of range of 150 feet and a save DC of
this ability. 17. The save DCs are Charisma-
Paralysis: The target must succeed on a Forti- based. The ten eye rays include:
tude save or be paralyzed for 2d10 minutes. Charm Monster: The target must succeed on a
Exhaustion: This works like the spell ray of Will save or be affected as though by the spell.
exhaustion (no save). Beholders use this ray to confuse the opposition,
26 Stunning Gaze (Su): Stun for 1 round, 30 feet, usually employing it early in a fight. The beholder gen-
Will DC 14 negates. The save DC is Charisma-based. erally instructs a charmed target to either restrain a com-
Any creature meeting the gaze of the gauth’s central eye rade or stand aside.

Charm Person: The target must succeed on a Will save or be chambers stacked on top of each other. Beholders prefer inacces-
affected as though by the spell. Beholders use this ray in the same sible locations that earthbound foes can reach only with difficulty.
manner as the charm monster ray.
Disintegrate: The target must succeed on a Fortitude save or be
