REDNAMALAS
just like an aquatic elf. These creatures, called malenti, have a swim others. They are rarely encountered without their heated metal
speed of 40 feet, can remain out of water for 1 hour per point of spears, but sometimes wield other weapons.
Constitution, and have freshwater sensitivity and light sensitivity When summoned to the Material Plane, salamanders often
(dazzled in bright light). Malenti have no natural attacks. They are assist forge workers and smiths. Their ability to work metal while
otherwise identical with sahuagin. it’s still in the fire makes them some of the best metalsmiths
known anywhere.
SAHUAGIN SOCIETY Salamanders reproduce asexually, each producing a single
The sea devils live by a code of ritualized behavior developed over larva every ten years and incubating the young in fire pits until
millennia. Every member of a sahuagin they reach maturity. Flamebrothers and average salamanders are
community knows its place well—and actually different species, while nobles rise from the ranks of the
remains there. The sahuagin average.
pride themselves on Salamanders speak Ignan. Some average
self-sufficiency and salamanders and all nobles also speak
strict adherence to Common.
their social code.
Unfortunately for COMBAT
others, one of Salamander Salamanders use metal spears
their core beliefs is heated red-hot by their own
that the survival of furnacelike bodies. Blood-
the sahuagin de- thirsty and sadistic,
pends on ruthlessly they are quick to at-
eradicating anything tack. They prefer to
that is not sahuagin. take on those who
Sahuagin dwell in appear strongest
communities of vary- first, saving weaker
ing sizes, from villages enemies for slower,
to cities, built of stone agonizing treatment
and other natural mate- later.
rials deep beneath the If a salamander
ocean waves. The crea- has damage reduc-
tures employ a variety tion, its natural
of defenses, both pas- weapons are treated
sive (such as seaweed as magic weapons for
camouflage) and active the purpose of over-
(such as traps and tame coming damage reduction.
sharks), to protect their com- Constrict (Ex): A salaman-
munities. Elite groups of senior der deals automatic tail slap damage
males (especially the four-armed ones) rule each community: (including fire damage) with a successful
A baron governs a village, while a prince rules approximately grapple check. A noble salamander can constrict multiple crea-
twenty villages. Sahuagin kings rule much larger territories and tures simultaneously, provided they are all at least two sizes
dwell within cities having as many as six thousand inhabitants. A smaller than it.
sahuagin kingdom generally covers an entire seacoast, with vil- Heat (Ex): A salamander generates so much heat that its mere
lages and towns at least 100 miles apart. Sahuagin clerics function touch deals additional fire damage. Salamanders’ metallic weap-
as teachers and keepers of lore, controlling religious life in their ons also conduct this heat.
communities. Despite the presence of these priestesses within Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, a salamander must hit
their society, the superstitious sea devils distrust and fear magic. a creature of up to one size larger than itself with its tail slap attack.
The patron deity of sahuagin is Sekolah, a great devil shark. It can then attempt to start a grapple as a free action without pro-
voking an attack of opportunity. If it wins the grapple check, it
SAHUAGIN CHARACTERS establishes a hold and can constrict.
A male sahuagin’s favored class is ranger, and most sahuagin lead- Spell-Like Abilities: (Noble salamanders only) 3/day—burn-
ers are rangers. Most sahuagin rangers choose humanoids (elves) ing hands (DC 13), fireball (DC 15), flaming sphere (DC 14), wall of fire
as their favored enemy. Female sahuagin favor the cleric class. (DC 16); 1/day—dispel magic, summon monster VII (Huge fire ele-
Sahuagin clerics worship Sekolah. A sahuagin cleric has access to mental). Caster level 15th. The save DCs are Charisma-based.
218 two of the following domains: Evil, Law, Strength, or War (favored Skills: Salamanders have a +4 racial bonus on Craft (black-
weapon: trident). smithing) checks.

Flamebrother Salamander AverageSalamander NobleSalamander
SmallOutsider MediumOutsider LargeOutsider
(Extraplanar,Fire) (Extraplanar,Fire) (Extraplanar,Fire)
HitDice: 4d8+8(26hp) 9d8+18(58hp) 15d8+45(112hp)
Initiative: +1 +1 +1
Speed: 20ft.(4squares) 20ft.(4squares) 20ft.(4squares)
ArmorClass: 19(+1size,+1Dex,+7natural), 18(+1Dex,+7natural), 18(–1size,+1Dex,+8natural),
touch12,flat-footed18 touch11,flat-footed17 touch10,flat-footed17
BaseAttack/Grapple:+4/+1 +9/+11 +15/+25
Attack: Spear+6melee Spear+11melee longspear+23melee
(1d6+1/×3plus1d6fire) (1d8+3/×3plus1d6fire) (1d8+9/×3plus1d8fire)
FullAttack: Spear+6melee Spear+11/+6melee longspear+23/+18/+13
(1d6+1/×3plus1d6fire)and (1d8+3/×3plus1d6fire)and melee(1d8+9/×3plus1d8fire)
