ROPER
Organization:Solitary or pair
Challenge Rating: 9 Large Magical Beast
Treasure: None Hit Dice: 10d10+30 (85 hp)
Alignment: Always neutral Initiative: +5
Advancement: 19–32 HD (Gargantuan); 33–54 (Colossal) Speed: 10 ft. (2 squares)
Level Adjustment: — Armor Class: 24 (–1 size, +1 Dex, +14 natural), touch 10,
flat-footed 23
This creature is an enormous bird, easily the size of a building. Base Attack/Grapple: +10/+18
Attack: Strand +11 ranged touch (drag) or bite +13 melee
Almost too big to be believed, rocs are huge birds of prey that (2d6+6)
dwell in warm mountainous regions and are known for carrying Full Attack: 6 strands +11 ranged touch (drag) and bite +13
off large animals (cattle, horses, even elephants). melee (2d6+6)
A roc’s plumage is either dark brown or golden from head to tail. Space/Reach: 10 ft./10 ft. (50 ft. with strand)
In a few rare instances, red, black, or white rocs are sighted, but Special Attacks: Drag, strands, weakness
they are often considered bad omens. These enormous creatures Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., immunity to electricity,
are 30 feet long from the beak to the base of the tail, with wing- low-light vision, resistance to cold 10, spell resistance 30,
spans as wide as 80 feet. A roc weighs about vulnerability to fire
8,000 pounds. Saves: Fort +10, Ref +8, Will +8
Rocs lair in vast nests made from Abilities: Str 19, Dex 13, Con 17, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 12
trees, branches, lumber, and the like. Skills: Climb +12, Hide +10*, Listen +13, Spot +13
They prefer to dwell high in the moun- Feats: Alertness, Improved Initiative, Iron Will,
tains, far from other rocs, to avoid strain- Weapon Focus (strand)
ing their food supply; they hunt within Environment: Underground
a radius of about 10 miles around Organization:Solitary, pair, or cluster (3–6)
their nests. Challenge Rating: 12
Treasure: No coins; 50% goods (stone only); no items
COMBAT Alignment: Usually chaotic evil
A roc attacks from the air, swooping Advancement: 11–15 HD (Large); 16–30 HD (Huge)
earthward to snatch prey in its power- Level Adjustment: —
ful talons and carry it off for itself
and its young to devour. A This creature looks much like a natural stalagmite about 10
solitary roc is typically hunting and feet tall. Its great, gaping maw lined with crystalline teeth
will attack any Medium or larger suggests it is a meat eater.
creature that appears edible. A
mated pair of rocs attack in concert, Ropers are hideous creatures that lurk in the deep cav-
fighting to the death to defend erns of the world. They are altogether evil and far more
their nests or hatchlings. intelligent than most people would judge by their 215
Skills: Rocs have a +4 racial appearance.
bonus on Spot checks. Roper

A roper stands some 9 feet tall and tapers from 3 or 4 feet in thick, lumpy hide. Its tail is covered with armor plates and ends in a bony
diameter at the base to 1 foot across at the top. It weighs 2,200 projection that looks like a double-ended paddle. The creature sports two
pounds. A roper’s coloration and temperature change to match the long antennae on its head, one beneath each eye.
features of the surrounding cave.
Ropers speak Terran and Undercommon. Most fighters would rather face an army of orcs than confront a
rust monster. These creatures corrode and eat metal objects and
COMBAT have ruined the armor, shields, and weapons of countless adven-
A roper hunts by standing very still and imitating a bit of rock. turers.
This tactic often allows it to attack with surprise. When prey The hide of these creatures varies in color from a yellowish tan
comes within reach, it lashes out with its strands. In melee, it bites underside to a rust-red upper back. A rust monster’s prehensile
RETSNOM adjacent opponents with its powerful maw. antennae can rust metals on contact.
Drag (Ex): If a roper hits with a strand attack, the strand latches The typical rust monster measures 5 feet long and 3 feet high,
onto the opponent’s body. This deals no damage but drags the weighing 200 pounds.
stuck opponent 10 feet closer each subsequent round (provoking
no attack of opportunity) unless that creature breaks free, which COMBAT
requires a DC 23 Escape Artist check or a DC 19 Strength check. A rust monster can scent a metal object from up to 90 feet away.
