RUATNEC
+3 melee (1d6+2); or composite longbow (+4 Str bonus) +5 running water. Depending on the climate, the lair may contain
ranged (2d6+4/×3) huts or lean-tos to shelter individual fami-
Space/Reach: 10 ft./5 ft. lies. Hearths for cooking and warmth
Special Attacks: — are in an open area, away from the
Special Qualities: Darkvision trees.
60 ft. Centaurs are skilled in horticul-
Saves: Fort +3, Ref +6, Will +5 ture and may cultivate useful plants
Abilities: Str 18, Dex 14, Con 15, near their lair. In dangerous, mon-
Int 8, Wis 13, Cha 11 ster-infested areas they plant thick
Skills: Listen +3, Move Silently barriers of thorn bushes around
+4, Spot +3, Survival +2 their lair, dig pits, and set snares.
Feats: Dodge, Weapon Focus Centaurs survive through a mix-
(hoof ) ture of hunting, foraging, fishing,
Environment: Temperate forests agriculture, and trade. Though they
Organization: Solitary, company shun dealings with humans, cen-
(5–8), troop (8–18 plus 1 leader taurs do trade with elves, espe-
of 2nd–5th level), or tribe cially for food and wine. The elves
(20–150 plus 30% noncombat- are paid from the tribe’s treasury,
ants plus 10 3rd-level sergeants, which consists of the booty of
5 5th-level lieutenants, and 1 slain monsters.
leader of 5th–9th level) The size of a centaur tribe’s terri-
Challenge Rating: 3 tory varies with its population and
Treasure: Standard the nature of the area it inhabits.
Alignment: Usually neutral good Centaurs do not object to sharing
Advancement: By character class territory with elves. The attitude of a
Level Adjustment: +2 centaur toward a stranger in its terri-
tory depends on the visitor. Humans
The creature gallops out of the and dwarves are politely asked to
trees, its thundering hooves echoing leave, halflings or gnomes are toler-
throughout the forest. It has the upper ated, and elves are welcomed.
torso, arms, and head of a human- Centaurs deal with monsters
oid, and the lower body of a large according to how much of a threat
horse. It carries a longbow, drawn they are to the welfare and sur-
and nocked, ready to loose an arrow vival of the tribe: If a giant or
at the first hint of danger. Centaur dragon were to enter a tribe’s terri-
tory, the centaurs would relocate, but they would attempt to kill
Centaurs are woodland beings who shun the company of strangers. trolls, orcs, and the like.
They are deadly archers and even more fearsome in melee. Most centaurs revere a deity named Skerrit, who is a god of
A centaur is as big as a heavy horse, but much taller and nature and community.
slightly heavier. A centaur is about 7 feet tall and weighs about
2,100 pounds. CENTAURS AS CHARACTERS
Centaurs speak Sylvan and Elven. Centaurs sometimes become bards, rangers, or druids. Centaur
rangers often choose magical beasts or some variety of humanoid
COMBAT as their favored enemy. A centaur druid is usually a tribe’s desig-
Although generally mild-tempered, centaurs are always armed. nated leader and speaker. Centaur clerics (who are rare) worship
Their favorite melee weapon is the longsword. When scouting or Skerrit and can choose any two of the following domains: Animal,
hunting, they carry composite longbows. A centaur employing a Good, or Plant.
lance deals double damage when it charges, just as a rider on a Centaur characters possess the following racial traits.
mount does. — +8 Strength, +4 Dexterity, +4 Constitution, –2 Intelligence,
Centaurs usually don’t provoke a fight. Their normal response +2 Wisdom.
to aggression is swift retreat, perhaps after launching a few —Large size. –1 penalty to Armor Class, –1 penalty on attack
arrows to discourage pursuit. Against creatures powerful enough rolls, –4 penalty on Hide checks, +4 bonus on grapple checks, lift-
32 to pose danger to the tribe, they appear to use this same tactic, ing and carrying limits double those of Medium characters.
except that about half of the “retreating” centaurs will circle —Space/Reach: 10 feet/5 feet.
around to lie in ambush or attack the foe from the rear. —A centaur’s base land speed is 50 feet.

—Darkvision out to 60 feet. ture, all muscle and fury A chaos beast’s dimensions vary, but it
—Racial Hit Dice: A centaur begins with four levels of mon- always weighs about 200 pounds.
strous humanoid, which provide 4d8 Hit Dice, a base attack bonus Chaos beasts do not speak.
of +4, and base saving throw bonuses of Fort +1, Ref +4, and Will +4.
—Racial Skills: A centaur’s monstrous humanoid levels give it COMBAT
skill points equal to 7 × (2 + Int modifier). Its class skills are Listen, How many different attacks can a creature capable of any form
Move Silently, Spot, and Survival. have? In this case, only two.
—Racial Feats: A centaur’s monstrous humanoid levels give it For all its fearsome appearances, whether it has claws, fangs,
two feats. pincers, tentacles, or spines, a chaos beast does little physical
— +3 natural armor bonus. harm. Regardless of form, the creature seems unable to manage
— Automatic Languages: Sylvan, Elven. Bonus Languages: more than two attacks per round. Its continual transmutations
