S G 4
the creature has. Some templates grant one or more bonus feats. relevant ability score modifier of the creature using the ability. :
Environment: Usually the same as the base creature. Typically, each ability is associated with certain kinds of abilities,
Organization: Usually the same as the base creature. as follows.
Challenge Rating: Most templates increase the creature’s Strength: Any application of force, crushing, binding, or con-
Challenge Rating. A template might provide a modifier to be striction.
added to the base creature’s CR, or it might specify a range of mod- Dexterity: Movement, movement restrictions, hitting with a
ifiers depending on the base creature’s original Hit Dice or CR. missile, entanglement.
Treasure: Usually the same as the base creature. Constitution: Almost anything that comes from the creature’s
Alignment: Usually the same as the base creature, unless the body, including poison attacks and breath weapons.
template is associated with a certain alignment (such as the celes- Intelligence: Illusion effects.
tial and fiendish templates, and any template that changes a crea- Wisdom: Mental or perception effects (except charms and com-
ture’s type to undead). pulsions; see Charisma).
Advancement: Usually the same as the base creature. Charisma: A creature’s Charisma modifier affects the save DC
Level Adjustment: This entry is a modifier to the base crea- for any spell-like abilities it has. Use Charisma for anything pit-
ture’s level adjustment. Any level adjustment is meaningless ting the creature’s will against an opponent, such as gaze attacks,
unless the creature retains a high enough Intelligence (minimum charms, compulsions, and energy drain effects. Also use Charisma
3) to gain class levels after applying the template. for any DC that normally would be based on an ability score the
creature does not have. For example, undead have no Constitution
ADDING A TEMPLATE, STEP-BY-STEP score, so any poison attack an undead creature has would use
All the templates presented in this book include at least one Charisma to determine the save DC.
example of the template applied to a creature. To apply a template Add any new special abilities granted by the template.
to a creature yourself, follow the steps outlined below. Add any skill bonuses given by the template.
If the template changes the base creature’s size, use Table 4–2 to Add any feats given by the template that are not already taken
determine changes to natural armor, Armor Class, and attack rolls. into account.
Check the text of the template to see if you apply size modifiers to Update the Challenge Rating as instructed by the template.
Strength, Dexterity, and Constitution. The template’s Abilities
entry may already account for those adjustments. Adding More Than One Template
Add all ability score modifiers, from size and from the Abilities In theory, there’s no limit to the number of templates you can add
entry, to the base creature’s ability scores. to a creature. To add more than one template, just apply each tem-
When you know the new Constitution modifier and any plate one at a time. Always apply inherited templates before apply-
change to Hit Die size, recalculate the templated monster’s hit ing acquired templates. Whenever you add multiple templates, pay
points. See Hit Dice and Hit Points, above. attention to the creature’s type—you may add a template that
The new Constitution modifier also modifies the creature’s Forti- makes the creature ineligible for other templates you might want
tude saving throw modifier and any skill modifier for Concentration to add. For example, a vampire cannot become a lich and vice versa.
checks. Check for Great Fortitude or any other feat that affects the
Fortitude saving throw modifier and apply the change now.
