SEA CAT
and most also speak
Common. Large Magical Beast
Hit Dice: 6d10+18 (51 hp)
COMBAT Initiative: +1
The keen senses of a satyr Speed: 10 ft. (2 squares), swim 40 ft.
make it almost impossible Armor Class: 18 (–1 size, +1
to surprise one in the wild. Dex, +8 natural), touch 10,
Conversely, with their flat-footed 17
own natural grace and Base Attack/Grapple: +6/+14
agility, satyrs can sneak Attack: Claw +9 melee (1d6+4)
up on travelers who are not Full Attack: 2 claws +9 melee
carefully watching the sur- (1d6+4) and bite +4 melee
rounding wilderness. (1d8+2)
Once engaged in battle, Space/Reach: 10 ft./5 ft.
an unarmed satyr attacks Special Attacks: Rend 2d6+6
with a powerful head butt. Satyr Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., hold breath, low-light
A satyr expecting trouble vision, scent
is likely to be armed with a bow and a dagger and typically looses Saves: Fort +8, Ref +6, Will +5
arrows from hiding, weakening an enemy before closing. Abilities: Str 19, Dex 12, Con 17, Int 2, Wis 13, Cha 10
Pipes (Su): Satyrs can play a variety of magical tunes on their Skills: Listen +8, Spot +7, Swim +12
pan pipes. Usually, only one satyr in a group carries pipes. When it Feats: Alertness, Endurance, Iron Will
plays, all creatures within a 60-foot spread (except satyrs) must Environment: Temperate aquatic
succeed on a DC 13 Will save or be affected by charm person, sleep, Organization:Solitary, pair, or pride (5–12)
orfear(caster level 10th; the satyr chooses the tune and its effect). Challenge Rating: 4
In the hands of other beings, these pipes have no special powers. A Treasure: None
creature that successfully saves against any of the pipe’s effects Alignment: Always neutral
cannot be affected by the same set of pipes for 24 hours. The save Advancement: 7–9 HD (Large); 10–18 HD (Huge)
DC is Charisma-based. Level Adjustment: —
A satyr often uses its pipes to charm and seduce especially
comely women or to put a party of adventurers to sleep and then This creature has a body like that of a porpoise or a small whale, with a
steal their valuables. leonine head and forepaws. A ruff of silky hair runs from the top of its head
Skills: Satyrs have a +4 racial bonus on Hide, Listen, Move all the way to its tail flukes.
Silently, Perform, and Spot checks.
The sea cat is a fearsome aquatic predator.
SATYRS AS CHARACTERS Sea cats inhabit shallow coastal waters, making their lairs in
220 Satyr characters possess the following racial traits. undersea caves or in the wreckage of ships. They hunt for fish,
— +2 Dexterity, +2 Constitution, +2 Intelligence, +2 Wisdom, aquatic mammals, sea birds, and anything else they can catch and
+2 Charisma. kill.

A typical sea cat is 12 feet long and weighs 800 pounds.
Sea cat COMBAT
Sea cats attack on sight, either for food or to defend their territory,
and use both claws and teeth to grab and rend their prey. They dis-
play tremendous courage, always fighting to the death, even
against creatures many times their size. Pairs and prides of sea cats
attack in concert, trying to wear the opponent down until one
beast can dispatch it.
Hold Breath (Ex): A sea cat can hold its breath for a number of
rounds equal to 6 × its Constitution score before it risks drowning.
Rend (Ex): A sea cat that hits with both claw attacks latches
onto the opponent’s body and tears the flesh. This automatically SHADOW
deals an extra 2d6+6 points of damage.
Skills: A sea cat has a +8 racial bonus on any Swim check to per-
form some special action or avoid a hazard. It can always choose to
take 10 on a Swim check, even if distracted or endangered. It can
use the run action while swimming, provided it swims in a
straight line.
