SHADOW
This creature seems to be nothing but a patch of mobile gloom, more or
less humanoid in shape.
Shadows are creatures of sentient darkness, hating life and light
with equal fervor. Their touch bestows the painful chill of nonex-
istence, making them very dangerous opponents.
A shadow can be difficult to see in dark or gloomy areas but
stands out starkly in brightly illuminated places.
Natural enemies of all that live, shadows are aggressive and
predatory. They are quick to strike and make short work of those
unprepared to deal with them.
A shadow is 5 to 6 feet tall and is weightless.
Shadows cannot speak intelligibly.
Sea cats are aggressively territorial, attacking any creature,
regardless of size, that enters their domain. Their chief enemies COMBAT
and competitors are sharks, and sea cats go out of their way to Shadows lurk in dark places, waiting for living prey to happen by.
attack them. Sometimes they form temporary prides to deal with Strength Damage (Su): The touch of a shadow deals 1d6 points
particularly dangerous or resistant intruders. Their normal pride of Strength damage to a living foe. A creature reduced to Strength
structure is much like that of terrestrial lions. 0 by a shadow dies. This is a negative energy effect.
Shadow Greater Shadow
Medium Undead (Incorporeal) Medium Undead (Incorporeal)
Hit Dice: 3d12 (19 hp) 9d12 (58 hp)
Initiative: +2 +2
Speed: Fly 40 ft. (good) (8 squares) Fly 40 ft. (good) (8 squares)
Armor Class: 13 (+2 Dex, +1 deflection), touch 13, flat-footed 11 14 (+2 Dex, +2 deflection), touch 14, flat-footed 12
Base Attack/Grapple: +1/— +4/—
Attack: Incorporeal touch +3 melee (1d6 Str) Incorporeal touch +6 melee (1d8 Str)
Full Attack: Incorporeal touch +3 melee (1d6 Str) Incorporeal touch +6 melee (1d8 Str)
Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft. 5 ft./5 ft.
Special Attacks: Create spawn, strength damage Create spawn, strength damage
Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., incorporeal traits, Darkvision 60 ft., incorporeal traits,
+2 turn resistance, undead traits +2 turn resistance, undead traits
Saves: Fort +1, Ref +3, Will +4 Fort +3, Ref +5, Will +7
Abilities: Str —, Dex 14, Con —, Str —, Dex 15, Con —,
Int 6, Wis 12, Cha 13 Int 6, Wis 12, Cha 14
Skills: Hide +8*, Listen +7, Search +4, Spot +7 Hide +14*, Listen +9, Search +6, Spot +9
Feats: Alertness, Dodge Alertness, Dodge, Mobility, Spring Attack
Environment: Any Any
Organization: Solitary, gang (2–5), or swarm (6–11) Solitary
Challenge Rating: 3 8
Treasure: None None
Alignment: Always chaotic evil Always chaotic evil 221
Advancement: 4–9 HD (Medium) —
Level Adjustment: — —

Create Spawn (Su): Any humanoid reduced to Strength 0 by a COMBAT
shadow becomes a shadow under the control of its killer within Shadow mastiffs prefer fighting in shadows or dark
1d4 rounds. conditions, which gives them a great advantage.
Skills: Shadows have a +2 racial bonus on Listen and Spot checks If a magical light source negates the shad-
and a +4 racial bonus on Search checks. ows around them, shadow mastiffs are
*A shadow gains a +4 racial bonus on Hide checks in areas of cunning enough to either move out of
shadowy illumination. In brightly lit areas, it takes a –4 penalty the light or back off and break up the
on Hide checks. opposition with their baying. They have
been known to seize and carry off items
GREATER SHADOW enspelled with daylightspells.
Although no more intelligent than an average shadow, a Bay (Su): When a shadow mastiff howls
greater shadow is more fearsome because of its or barks, all creatures except evil outsiders
WODAHS FFITSAMdooW increased damage and its hit-and-run tactics. within a 300-foot spread must succeed on a
DC 13 Will save or become panicked for 2d4
Combat rounds.This is a sonic mind-affecting fear
A greater shadow uses stealth and Shadow effect. Whether or not the save is successful, an
cunning in combat. A favorite affected creature is immune to the same mas-
tactic is to lie in wait, almost com- tiff ’s bay for 24 hours. The save DC is
pletely concealed by walls or floor, then swoop out, make an Charisma-based.
incorporeal touch attack, and retreat back into a solid object Trip (Ex): A shadow mastiff that hits with
without allowing a return attack. its bite attack can attempt to trip the opponent
Strength Damage (Su): The touch of a greater shadow as a free action (+3 check modifier) without
deals 1d8 points of Strength damage to a living foe. making a touch attack or provoking an attack of
opportunity. If the attempt fails, the opponent
cannot react to trip the shadow mastiff.
