SKILLS
afflicted lycanthrope can control his shape. A natural lycanthrope
does not need this skill, since it has full control over its shape. CRAFT CONSTRUCT [ITEM CREATION] FEATS
Check (Involuntary Change): An afflicted character must The creature can create golems and other magic automatons that
make a check at moonrise each night of the full moon to resist obey its orders. AND
involuntarily assuming animal form. An injured character must Prerequisites: Craft Magic Arms and Armor, Craft Wondrous
6:
also check for an involuntary change after accumulating enough Item.
damage to reduce his hit points by one-quarter and again after Benefit: A creature with this feat can create any construct
each additional one-quarter lost. whose prerequisites it meets. Enchanting a construct takes one
Involuntary Change Control Shape DC day for each 1,000 gp in its market price. To enchant a construct, a
Resist involuntary change 25 spellcaster must spend 1/25 the item’s price in XP and use up raw
On a failed check, the character must remain in animal form until materials costing half of this price (see the Golem, Homunculus,
the next dawn, when he automatically returns to his base form. A and Shield Guardian monster entries for details).
character aware of his condition may make one attempt to return A creature with this feat can repair constructs that have taken
to humanoid form (see below), but if he fails, he remains in animal damage. In one day of work, the creature can repair up to 20 points
form until the next dawn. of damage by expending 50 gp per point of damage repaired.
Retry (Involuntary Change): Check to resist an involuntary A newly created construct has average hit points for its Hit
change once each time a triggering event occurs. Dice.
Check (Voluntary Change): In addition, an afflicted lycan- EMPOWER SPELL-LIKE ABILITY [GENERAL]
thrope aware of his condition may attempt to use this skill volun- The creature can use a spell-like ability with greater effect than
tarily in order to change to animal form, assume hybrid form, or normal.
return to humanoid form, regardless of the state of the moon or Prerequisite: Spell-like ability at caster level 6th or higher.
whether he has been injured. Benefit: Choose one of the creature’s spell-like abilities, subject
Involuntary Change Control Shape DC to the restrictions below. The creature can use that ability as an
Return to humanoid form (full moon*) 25 empowered spell-like ability three times per day (or less, if the
Return to humanoid form (not full moon) 20 ability is normally usable only once or twice per day).
Assume hybrid form 15 When a creature uses an empowered spell-like ability, all vari-
Voluntary change to animal form (full moon) 15 able, numeric effects of the spell-like ability are increased by one-
Voluntary change to animal form (not full moon) 20 half. An empowered spell-like ability does half again as much
* For game purposes, the full moon lasts three days every month. damage as normal, cures half again as many hit points, affects half
Retry (Voluntary Change): A character can retry voluntary again as many targets, and so on as appropriate. For example, a
changes to animal form or hybrid form as often as he likes. Each night hag’s empowered magic missile deals 1-1/2 times normal
attempt is a standard action. However, on a failed check to return damage (roll 1d4+1 and multiply the result by 1-1/2 for each mis-
to humanoid form, the character must remain in animal or hybrid sile). Saving throws and opposed rolls (such as the one made when
form until the next dawn, when he automatically returns to a character casts dispel magic) are not affected. Spell-like abilities
humanoid form. without random variables are not affected.
Special: An afflicted lycanthrope cannot attempt a voluntary The creature can only select a spell-like ability duplicating a
change until it becomes aware of its condition (see Lycanthropy as spell with a level less than or equal to half its caster level (round
an Affliction, page 178). down) –2. For a summary, see the table in the description of the
Quicken Spell-Like Ability feat. For example, a creature that uses
ABILITY FOCUS [GENERAL] its spell-like abilities as a 13th-level caster can only empower spell-
Choose one of the creature’s special attacks. This attack becomes like abilities duplicating spells of 4th level or lower.
more potent than normal. Special: This feat can be taken multiple times. Each time it is
Prerequisite: Special attack. taken, the creature can apply it to a different one of its spell-like
Benefit: Add +2 to the DC for all saving throws against the spe- abilites.
cial attack on which the creature focuses.
Special: A creature can gain this feat multiple times. Its effects FLYBY ATTACK [GENERAL]
do not stack. Each time the creature takes the feat, it applies to a The creature can attack on the wing.
different special attack. Prerequisite: Fly speed.
Benefit: When flying, the creature can take a move action
AWESOME BLOW [GENERAL, FIGHTER] (including a dive) and another standard action at any point during
The creature can choose to deliver blows that send its smaller the move. The creature cannot take a second move action during a
opponents flying like bowling pins. round when it makes a flyby attack. 303
Prerequisites: Str 25, Power Attack, Improved Bull Rush, size Normal: Without this feat, the creature takes a standard action
Large or larger. either before or after its move.

HOVER [GENERAL] Special: This feat replaces the Two-Weapon Fighting feat for
The creature can come to a halt in midair. creatures with more than two arms.
Prerequisite: Fly speed.
Benefit: When flying, the creature can halt its forward motion QUICKEN SPELL-LIKE ABILITY [GENERAL]
and hover in place as a move action. It can then fly in any direc- The creature can employ a spell-like ability with a moment’s thought.
tion, including straight down or straight up, at half speed, regard- Prerequisite: Spell-like ability at caster level 10th or higher.
less of its maneuverability. Benefit: Choose one of the creature’s spell-like abilities, subject
If a creature begins its turn hovering, it can hover in place for to the restrictions described below. The creature can use that abil-
the turn and take a full-round action. A hovering creature cannot ity as a quickened spell-like ability three times per day (or less, if
make wing attacks, but it can attack with all other limbs and the ability is normally usable only once or twice per day).
appendages it could use in a full attack. The creature can instead Using a quickened spell-like ability is a free action that does not
:6 use a breath weapon or cast a spell instead of making physical provoke an attack of opportunity. The creature can perform an-
