SLAAD
darkvision 60 ft., fast healing 5, immunity to sonic, resistance +24, Intimidate +22, Jump +23, Knowledge (any two) +22,
to acid 5, cold 5, electricity 5, and fire 5 Listen +22, Move Silently +24, Search +22, Spot +22, Survival
Saves: Fort +12, Ref +10, Will +9 +12 (+14 when tracking), Use Rope +6 (+8 with bindings)
Abilities: Str 19, Dex 17, Con 21, Int 14, Wis 14, Cha 14 Feats: Cleave, Great Cleave, Improved Initiative, Improved
Skills: Climb +17, Concentration +15, Hide +16, Jump +17, Sunder, Multiattack, Power Attack
Knowledge (arcana) +15, Listen +15, Move Silently +16, Search Environment: Ever-Changing Chaos of Limbo
+15, Spellcraft +17, Spot +15, Survival +5 (+7 following tracks) Organization:Solitary or pair
Feats: Multiattack, Improved Initiative, Weapon Focus (claw), Challenge Rating: 13
item creation feat (any one) Treasure: Double standard
Environment: Ever-Changing Chaos of Limbo Alignment: Usually chaotic evil
Organization:Solitary or pair Advancement: 16–22 HD (Medium); 23–45 HD (Large)
Challenge Rating: 10 Level Adjustment: —
Treasure: Double standard
Alignment: Usually chaotic neutral Lean and quick-looking, this humanoid resembles a two-legged frog. Its
Advancement: 11–15 HD (Medium); 16–30 HD (Large) skin is a dappled gray color, and its fingers are long and clawed. It stands
Level Adjustment: +6 as tall as a human.
Lean and quick-looking, this humanoid resembles a two-legged frog. Its Death slaadi are grays that undergo some mysterious ritual that
skin is a dappled gray color, and its fingers are long and clawed. It stands transforms them into veritable killing machines. Although they
as tall as a human. have spell-like abilities like gray slaadi, death slaadi focus more on
killing than on magical power. They look exactly like gray slaadi.
A green slaad that survives for more than a century retreats into All slaadi obey the command of a death slaad, out of fear more
isolation for at least a year. It returns as a smaller, leaner gray slaad than anything else. Death slaadi represent a corruption of pure
and devotes most of its time and attention to magical study. Gray chaos by evil rather than true exemplars of it.
slaadi enjoy crafting magic items to further their own power.
Combat
Combat Although its prowess with its natural weapons is fearsome, a death
Gray slaadi prefer to fight from a distance, using their spell-like slaad enjoys wielding a magic weapon if available.
abilities, although they don’t shy away from melee. Stun (Ex): Three times per day, a death slaad can attempt to
Spell-Like Abilities: At will—chaos hammer (DC 16), deeper stun its opponent on an attack with one of its natural weapons. If
darkness, detect magic, identify, invisibility, lightning bolt (DC 15), magic the opponent fails a DC 21 Fortitude save, it is stunned for 1 round
circle against law, see invisibility, shatter (DC 14); 3/day—animate in addition to taking normal damage from the attack. The save DC
objects, dispel law (DC 17), fly; 1/day—power word stun. Caster level is Wisdom-based.
10th. The save DCs are Charisma-based. Spell-Like Abilities: At will—animate objects, chaos hammer
Change Shape (Su): A gray slaad can assume any humanoid (DC 18), deeper darkness, detect magic, dispel law (DC 19), fear (DC 18),
form as a standard action. In humanoid form, a gray slaad cannot finger of death (DC 21), fireball (DC 17), fly, identify, invisibility, magic
use its natural weapons (although a slaad can equip itself with circle against law, see invisibility, shatter (DC 16); 3/day—circle of death
weapons and armor appropriate to its appearance). A gray slaad re- (DC 20), cloak of chaos (DC 22), word of chaos (DC 21);1/day—implo-
mains in one form until it chooses to assume a new one. A change sion(DC 23), power word blind. Caster level 15th. The save DCs are
in form cannot be dispelled, but the slaad reverts to its natural Charisma-based.
form when killed. A true seeing spell reveals its natural form. Change Shape (Su): A death slaad can assume any humanoid
Summon Slaad(Sp): Twice per day a gray slaad can attempt to form as a standard action. In humanoid form, a death slaad cannot
summon 1–2 red slaadi or 1 blue slaad with a 60% chance of suc- use its natural weapons (although a slaad can equip itself with
cess, or 1 green slaad with a 40% chance of success. This ability is weapons and armor appropriate to its appearance). A death slaad
the equivalent of a 5th-level spell. remains in one form until it chooses to assume a new one. A
change in form cannot be dispelled, but the slaad reverts to its nat-
DEATH SLAAD ural form when killed. A true seeing spell reveals its natural form.
Medium Outsider (Chaotic, Extraplanar) Summon Slaad(Sp): Twice per day a death slaad can attempt to
Hit Dice: 15d8+75 (142 hp) summon 1–2 red or blue slaadi with a 60% chance of success, or
Initiative: +10 1–2 green slaadi with a 40% chance of success. This ability is the
Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares) equivalent of a 6th-level spell.
231

Sunlight Powerlessness (Ex): Spectres are powerless in natu-
