SRETSNOM
RETPAHC GNIKAM point between sizes at 1/2 the maximum Hit Dice to be added. For effect.
example, a Large aberration with 4 HD could advance to 12 HD. 4. Assign all combatants an initiative roll of 10, modified by
Since you’re adding up to 8 Hit Dice, the creature’s Advancement their normal initiative modifiers (for playtests, you want everyone
entry might read: 5–8 HD (Large); 9–12 (Huge). to take 10 on their initiative roll).
5. Run the encounter several times and try different tactics and
CHALLENGE RATING setups for the monsters.
This shows what level of party for which the creature would make
a good encounter of moderate difficulty. A party of four fresh If your proposed CR is appropriate, the PCs should be able to win
characters (full hit points, full spells, and an assortment of equip- the encounter with some damage, given reasonable luck. This vic-
ment appropriate to their levels) should be able to win the tory should consume no more than 20% of the party resources (hit
encounter with some damage, but no casualties, given reasonable points, spells, and consumable magic items). In the case of high-
luck. This victory should consume no more than 20% of the party CR monsters (say, 11 or more), an occasional PC death is not out of
resources (hit points, spells, and consumable magic items). line with the monster’s CR, since parties of that level can usually
Assigning an appropriate Challenge Rating can be difficult. The bring dead characters back to life pretty easily.
two basic tools for determining CR are comparing and playtesting. If your monster seems too dangerous, try the encounter again
with a single monster; this lets you see how the monster looks as a
Comparing CR solitary combatant whose CR is equal to the party’s level. If the
The simplest and quickest way to estimate your monster’s Chal- party handles the monster with no trouble, try increasing the
lenge Rating is to compare it to similar monsters in an appropriate number of monsters to three or four (which would effectively
CR range. Begin with the target CR you used in constructing your lower the monster’s CR by 1 or 2). You may need to adjust the
monster. Use the list of Monsters by Challenge Rating (see page party’s level and try the monster again at its new CR.
318) to compile a list of monsters whose CRs match your mon-
ster’s CR, plus or minus 1. For example, if your target CR is 7, you Monster Function and Challenge Rating
should closely examine monsters of CR 6, 7, and 8. A quick and dirty way to double-check your CR assignment is to
To narrow your list, look for monsters with similar types or sim- compare your monster’s Hit Dice against its CR. Depending on
ilar methods (bruisers, spell-like ability users, special attack users, their function, monsters need a high number of Hit Dice for their
and so on). Once you’ve reduced your list of comparable monsters CR, a low amount of Hit Dice for their CR, or an average amount.
to a manageable number, see how your monster compares to the Evaluate your monster and decide what its basic function is: bat-
others, using the following checklist: tler, ambusher, magic user, special attack user, or multiple threat.
—Does your monster have more or less Hit Dice? Battler: The monster uses sheer combat skill to threaten the
—Does your monster have a better or worse Armor Class? party and has few special abilities. Examples: dire animal (any),
—Does your monster have a higher or lower attack bonus? giant (any), gray render, minotaur, shambling mound, worg. A bat-
—Does your monster deal more or less damage? tler’s CR should be from 1/3 its HD to 2/3 its HD.
—Does your monster have more deadly special attacks? Ambusher: The monster depends on stealth or surprise attacks
—Does your monster have spell-like abilities whose highest to threaten the party. Examples: assassin vine, choker, derro,
spell level is lower or higher than the spell-like abilities of compa- mimic, phase spider, roper. An ambusher’s CR should be from 1/2
rable monsters? its HD to its HD.
—Does your monster have special defenses the other monsters Magic User: The monster’s best attacks are its spells or spell-
don’t have? like abilities. Examples: aboleth, lamia, lillend, mind flayer,
If your monster is clearly superior to most of the comparable nymph. A magic user’s CR should be from about its HD to its HD
monsters, your target CR is probably too low. Try adjusting the CR +2, provided the spells it can employ would be appropriate for a
up by 1 or 2, then find a new list of monsters that should be com- spellcasting character whose level is about the same as the mon-
parable at the new CR and see how your monster stacks up. If your ster’s Hit Dice. (If they’re less than expected, your monster is prob-
monster is clearly not as tough as most of the comparable mon- ably better described as an ambusher or battler.)
sters, reduce your CR by 1 or 2 and find a new list of comparable Special Attack User: The monster is dangerous because of a
monsters to check your monster against. special attack it can employ. Examples: basilisk, dragon (any),
harpy, medusa, wraith, vampire. A special attack user’s CR should
Playtesting CR be from 2/3 its HD to its HD.
The best way to set a monster’s CR is to see how it handles in play. Multiple Threat: The monster combines two or more of the
This can be time-consuming, but it probably gives you the best previous functions. For example, many demons and devils com-
information about how challenging your monster is. bine battler and magic user functions, while a mind flayer com-
To playtest a monster’s CR, use the following procedure: bines magic user and special attack user functions. Dragons with
302 1. Create a “playtest party” consisting of four characters whose significant spellcasting ability frequently combine battler, magic
level equals your monster’s target CR + 2. Each character should user, and special attack user functions. A multiple threat’s CR
be built using the standard ability score array and equipment for a should be from about 3/4 its HD to its HD +2.

CHAPTER 6: MONSTER Benefit: As a standard action, the creature may choose to sub-
tract 4 from its melee attack roll and deliver an awesome blow. If
SKILLS AND FEATS the creature hits a corporeal opponent smaller than itself with an
awesome blow, its opponent must succeed on a Reflex save (DC
This chapter provides descriptions of one skill, Control Shape, and = damage dealt) or be knocked flying 10 feet in a direction of the
a number of feats that are typically used only by monsters. attacking creature’s choice and fall prone. The attacking creature
can only push the opponent in a straight line, and the opponent
CONTROL SHAPE (WIS) can’t move closer to the attacking creature than the square it
Any character who has contracted lycanthropy and is aware of his started in. If an obstacle prevents the completion of the oppo-
condition can learn Control Shape as a class skill. (An afflicted nent’s move, the opponent and the obstacle each take 1d6 points
lycanthrope not yet aware of his condition can attempt Control of damage, and the opponent stops in the space adjacent to the
Shape checks untrained.)This skill determines whether an obstacle. CHAPTER
