SUBRACES
ELF SOCIETY The above information describes the high elf, the most common
Elves believe that independence and freedom for the individ- variety. There are five other major subraces of elf, in addition to
ual are more important than the rigid structures of civilization, half-elves, who share enough elven characteristics to be
so they tend to live and travel in small bands. These bands included here.
accept the loose authority of a noble, who in turn owes alle-
giance to an elven monarch (who rules his or her own band Half-Elf
directly). Half-elves are not truly an elf subrace, but they are often mistaken
Elves live in harmony with nature, building temporary camps for elves. They may be outcasts from their parents’ societies or wel-
that blend into the trees—or are in the branches of the trees, comed into the elven or human community, depending on the
away from prying eyes. They frequently have animal guardians or attitudes the two groups have for each other. Half-elves usually
giant eagles watching their homes. An elven settlement contains inherit a good blend of their parents’ physical characteristics, so a
noncombatants (mostly children) equal to 20% of the fighting half-aquatic elf has greenish skin, a half-drow has dusky skin and
population. Elf society is egalitarian, and males or females may be light hair, and so on.
found in almost any role. Half-Elf Traits (Ex): Half-elves possess the following racial
Their long life span gives elves a patient perspective and traits.
102 allows them to take pleasure in the enduring beauty of the natu- —Medium size.
ral world. They don’t see the point in short-term gains and —A half-elf’s base land speed is 30 feet.
instead learn things that will provide joy for years to come, such —Immunity to sleep spells and similar magical effects, and a

+2 racial bonus on saving throws against enchantment spells or Drow
effects. This humanoid is slender and shorter than a human. It has jet black skin
—Low-light vision. and white hair.
— +1 racial bonus on Listen, Search, and Spot checks. A half-elf
does not have the elf’s ability to notice secret doors simply by pass- Also known as dark elves, drow are a depraved and evil subter-
ing near them. ranean offshoot.
— +2 racial bonus on Diplomacy and Gather Information White is the most common hair color among drow, but almost
checks: Half-elves get along naturally with all people. This bonus any pale shade is possible. Drow tend to be smaller and thinner
may not apply in situations or settings where half-elves are than other sorts of elves, and their eyes are often a vivid red. Their
viewed with distrust (such as isolated human settlements), at the society is matriarchal and rigidly controlled by the priesthood.
DM’s option. The drow’s patron deity is the spider goddess Lolth. Female
—Elven Blood: For all effects related to race, a drow favor the cleric class rather than
half-elf is considered an elf. Half-elves, for wizard and have access to two of
example, are just as vulnerable to special the following domains: Chaos,
