SWARM
Space/Reach: 10 ft./0 ft.
Swarms are dense masses of Fine, Diminutive, or Tiny creatures Special Attacks: Distraction, wounding
that would not be particularly dangerous in small groups, but Special Qualities: Blindsense 20 ft., half damage from slashing
can be terrible foes when gathered in sufficient numbers. While and piercing, low-light vision, swarm traits
a single cloud of locusts might actually be hundreds of feet Saves: Fort +3, Ref +7, Will +3
across, for game purposes a swarm is defined as a single creature Abilities: Str 3, Dex 15, Con 10, Int 2, Wis 14, Cha 4
with a space of 10 feet—gigantic hordes of bats or locusts are Skills: Listen +11, Spot +11
actually composed of dozens of swarms in close proximity. A Feats: Alertness, Lightning Reflexes
swarm has a single pool of Hit Dice and hit points, a single ini- Environment: Temperate deserts
tiative modifier, a single speed, and a single Armor Class. It Organization:Solitary, flight (2–4 swarms), or colony (11–20 237
makes saving throws as a single creature. swarms)
Many different creatures can mass as swarms; bat swarms, Challenge Rating: 2

Treasure: None Distraction (Ex): Any living creature that begins its turn with a
Alignment: Always neutral centipede swarm in its space must succeed on a DC 13 Fortitude
Advancement: None save or be nauseated for 1 round. The save DC is Constitution-based.
Level Adjustment: — Poison (Ex): Injury, Fortitude DC 13, initial and secondary
damage 1d4 Dex. The save DC is Constitution-based.
A whirring mass of quick, darting shadows sweeps closer. Hundreds of Skills: A centipede swarm has a +4 racial bonus on Spot checks
high-pitched squeaks fill the air. and a +8 racial bonus on Climb checks, and uses its Dexterity mod-
ifier instead of its Strength modifier for Climb checks.
A bat swarm is a mass of small, fierce carnivorous bats with a thirst A centipede swarm has a +8 racial bonus on Climb checks and
for the blood of any creature unfortunate enough to cross their path. can always choose to take 10 on a Climb check, even if rushed or
A bat swarm is nocturnal, and is never found aboveground in threatened.
daylight.
