T.
the fall and winter the leaves change to yellow, orange, or red, good
Diterlizzi
but they rarely fall out. A treant’s legs fit together when closed to Advancement: 4–9 HD (Medium)
look like the trunk of a tree, and a motionless treant is nearly Level Adjustment: +2
indistinguishable from a tree.
A treant is about 30 feet tall, with a “trunk” about 2 feet in This being is roughly human-sized. Its lower half
diameter. It weighs about 4,500 pounds. ends in two finned legs, while its torso, head,
Treantsspeaktheirownlanguage,plusCommon and arms are human.
and Sylvan. Most also can manage a smattering of
just about all other humanoid tongues—at least Tritons are thought to originate from the
enough to say “Get away from my trees!” Elemental Plane of Water, but have migrated to
the Material Plane for some unknown pur-
COMBAT pose. They are sea dwellers, preferring warm
Treants prefer to watch potential foes waters but able to tolerate colder depths.
carefully before attacking. They often A triton has silvery skin that fades into
charge suddenly from cover to trample silver-blue scales on the lower half of its body.
the despoilers of forests. If sorely pressed, A triton’s hair is deep blue or blue-green.
they animate trees as reinforcements. Treant Tritons form communities, either in great undersea
Animate Trees (Sp): A treant can animate trees castles built of rock, coral, and other natural materials or
within 180 feet at will, controlling up to two trees at a time. It in finely sculpted caverns. A hunter-gatherer people, tritons take
takes 1 full round for a normal tree to uproot itself. Thereafter it from the sea’s vast bounty only what they need to survive. They are
moves at a speed of 10 feet and fights as a treant in all respects. Ani- naturally suspicious of surface dwellers and prefer not to deal with
mated trees lose their ability to move if the treant that animated them if possible. However, tritons deal harshly with beings who
them is incapacitated or moves out of range. The ability is other- intentionally invade their communities, capturing the intruders
wise similar to liveoak (caster level 12th). Animated trees have the and setting them adrift without any possessions at least 10 miles
same vulnerability to fire that a treant has. from any shoreline, left “to the mercy of the sea.”
Double Damage against Objects (Ex): A treant or animated Tritons are the natural enemy of the cruel and evil sahuagin.
tree that makes a full attack against an object or structure deals The two cannot coexist peacefully: Wars between them are pro-
double damage. longed, bloody affairs that sometimes interfere with shipping and
Trample (Ex): Reflex DC 22 half. The save DC is Strength- maritime trade.
based. A triton is about the same size and weight as a human.
Skills: *Treants have a +16 racial bonus on Hide checks made Tritons speak Common and Aquan. 245
in forested areas.

COMBAT Troglodytes are revolting lizard creatures as evil as the
The reclusive tritons prefer to avoid combat, but they fiercely foulest of demons. They are very warlike and savor the
defend their homes. They attack with either melee or ranged taste of their enemies—especially humanoids.
weapons as the circumstances warrant. When encoun- Troglodytes are not especially intelligent, but their
tered outside their lair, they are 90% likely to be mounted ferocity and natural cunning more than compensate
on friendly sea creatures such as porpoises. for this deficiency. They often launch bloody raids
Spell-Like Abilities: 1/day—summon nature’s against humanoid settlements or ambush caravans in
allyIV. Caster level 7th. Tritons often choose warm climates. They guard their lairs aggressively,
water elementals for their companions. lashing out at anyone who comes too near.
Skills: A triton has a +8 racial bonus A troglodyte stands about 5 feet tall and weighs
on any Swim check to perform some about 150 pounds.
