TENDRICULOS
save DC is Charisma-based. Full Attack: Bite +13 melee
Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, the (2d8+9) and 2 tendrils +8
tarrasque must hit a Huge or smaller oppo- melee (1d6+4)
nent with its bite attack. It can then Space/Reach: 15 ft./15 ft.
attempt to start a grapple as a free Tendriculos Special Attacks: Improved
action without provoking an attack grab, paralysis, swallow whole
of opportunity. If it wins the grap- Special Qualities: Low-light vision,
ple check, it establishes a hold and plant traits, regeneration 10
can try to swallow the foe the follow- Saves: Fort +12, Ref +2, Will +4
ing round. Abilities: Str 28, Dex 9, Con 22, Int 3,
Rush (Ex): Once per minute, the Wis 8, Cha 3
normally slow-moving tarrasque Skills: Hide +9, Listen +1, Move Silently
can move at a speed of 150 feet. +1, Spot +1
Swallow Whole (Ex): The Feats: Alertness, Iron Will, Power Attack,
tarrasque can try to swallow a Stelathy
grabbed opponent of Huge or Environment: Temperate forests
smaller size by making a suc- Organization:Solitary
cessful grapple check. Once Challenge Rating: 6
inside, the opponent takes Treasure: 1/10th coins; 50% goods; 50%
2d8+8 points of crushing items
damage plus 2d8+6 points of Alignment: Always neutral
acid damage per round from Advancement: 10–16 HD
the tarrasque’s digestive (Huge); 17–27 HD
juices. A swallowed creature (Gargantuan)
can cut its way out by dealing Level Adjustment: —
50 points of damage to the tar-
rasque’s digestive tract (AC 25). This creature looks like a mound
Once the creature exits, muscu- of vegetation supported by vines
lar action closes the hole; another and branches. The mass has a huge
swallowed opponent must cut its opening filled with “teeth” of
own way out. sharp branches and long thorns.
The tarrasque’s gullet can hold 2 Huge, 8 Large, 32 Medium, 128
Small, or 512 Tiny or smaller creatures. The tendriculos is a plant that may have been mutated by foul
Carapace (Ex):The tarrasque’s armorlike carapace is exceptionally magic, or may have originated on another plane of existence—or
tough and highly reflective, deflecting all rays, lines, cones, and even possibly both of these theories are true.
magic missile spells. There is a 30% chance of reflecting any such A tendriculos can rear up to a height of 15 feet. It weighs about
effect back at the caster; otherwise, it is merely negated. Check for 3,500 pounds.
reflection before rolling to overcome the creature’s spell resistance. The tendriculos is best known for its ability to grow and regrow
Regeneration (Ex): No form of attack deals lethal damage to its vegetable body extremely rapidly. Whole new leaves and vines
the tarrasque. The tarrasque regenerates even if it fails a saving appear in just a few minutes. A tendriculos accomplishes this by
throw against a disintegrate spell or a death effect. If the tarrasque consuming vast quantities of meat.
fails its save against a spell or effect that would kill it instantly Animals and other plant creatures are unnerved by the presence
(such as those mentioned above), the spell or effect instead deals of a tendriculos; they avoid it and any place it has been within the
nonlethal damage equal to the creature’s full normal hit points +10 last 24 hours.
(or 868 hp). The tarrasque is immune to effects that produce incur-
able or bleeding wounds, such as mummy rot, a sword with the COMBAT
wounding special ability, or a clay golem’s cursed wound ability. Prowling deep forests or waiting in vegetated areas (looking like
The tarrasque can be slain only by raising its nonlethal damage nothing more than a small hillock), a tendriculos attacks savagely,
total to its full normal hit points +10 (or 868 hit points) and using showing no fear. It attempts to swallow as much flesh as it can, as
awishormiracle spell to keep it dead. quickly as it can.
If the tarrasque loses a limb or body part, the lost portion re- Improved Grab (Ex): To use this ability, a tendriculos must hit a
grows in 1d6 minutes (the detached piece dies and decays nor- creature at least one size smaller than itself with its bite attack. It can
mally). The creature can reattach the severed member instantly by then attempt to start a grapple as a free action without provoking an
holding it to the stump. attack of opportunity. If it wins the grapple check, it establishes a 241
Skills: The tarrasque has a +8 racial bonus on Listen and Spot hold and can try to swallow the opponent in the following round.
checks. A tendriculos can also use its improved grab ability on a tendril

attack. If it wins the grapple check, it establishes a hold, picks up A thoqqua spends most of its time bur-
the opponent, and transfers it to the mouth as a free Thoqqua rowing through rock looking for miner-
action, automatically dealing bite damage. als to eat. It burrowing leaves behind a
Swallow Whole/Paralysis (Ex): A ten- usable tunnel, albeit a small one with
driculos can try to swallow a grabbed blistering hot walls.
opponent by making a successful grapple A thoqqua is about 1 foot in
check. Once inside the plant’s mass, diameter and 4 to 5 feet long. It
the opponent must succeed on a DC weighs about 200 pounds.
20 Fortitude save or be paralyzed
for 3d6 rounds by the tendricu- COMBAT
los’s digestive juices, taking 2d6 When a thoqqua is disturbed, its first instinct
points of acid damage per is to attack. Its favored tactic is to spring
AUQQOHTsivraJ
round. A new save is required each round directly at a foe, either by bursting out of the
inside the plant. The save DC is Constitution-based. rock or by coiling up its body and launching itself
A swallowed creature that avoids paralysis can climb out of the like a spring. (Treat this as a charge, even though the thoqqua does
mass with a successful grapple check. This returns it to the plant’s not need to move 10 feet before attacking.)
maw, where another successful grapple check is needed to get Heat (Ex): Merely touching or being touched by a thoqqua
free. A swallowed creature can also cut its way out by using a light automatically deals 2d6 fire damage.
slashing or piercing weapon to deal 25 points of damage to the ten- Burn (Ex): When a thoqqua hits with its slam attack, the oppo-
driculos’s interior (AC 14). Once the creature exits, the plant’s nent must succeed on a DC 12 Reflex save or catch fire. The save
regenerative capacity closes the hole; another swallowed oppo- DC is Constitution-based. The flame burns for 1d4 rounds if not
nent must cut its own way out. extinguished sooner. A burning creature can use a full-round
A Huge tendriculos’s interior can hold 2 Large, 8 Medium, 32 action to put out the flame (see Catching on Fire, page 303 of the
Small, 128 Tiny, or 512 Diminutive or smaller opponents. Dungeon Master’s Guide).
Regeneration (Ex): Bludgeoning weapons and acid deal
normal damage to a tendriculos.
