TNAIG
This giant resembles a lean, muscular human. Its hard, hairless flesh is
Hill Giants as Characters smooth and gray. It has gaunt facial features and deep-sunken, black eyes
Reckless brutes of incredible strength but little wit, hill giant that makes it seem grim.
characters are never truly accepted into society. Yet they do well
on its edges and frontiers, forging a strong and profitable exis- Stone giants have a largely undeserved reputation as rock-throw-
tence. Despite their rugged appearance and great size, their basi- ing hooligans. In fact, they tend to be somewhat shy around
cally humanoid shape makes it easy for them to relate with more strangers.
civilized folk. Stone giants prefer thick leather garments, dyed in shades of
Hill giant characters possess the following racial traits. brown and gray to match the stone around them.
— +14 Strength, –2 Dexterity, +8 Constitution, –4 Intelligence, Adults are about 12 feet tall and weigh about 1,500 pounds.
–4 Charisma. Stone giants can live to be 800 years old.
—Large size. –1 penalty to Armor Class, –1 penalty on attack Stone giants may tend to be shy around strangers, but they are
rolls, –4 penalty on Hide checks, +4 bonus on grapple checks, by no means timid. Many stone giants have an artistic streak.
lifting and carrying limits double those of Medium characters. Some draw and paint scenes of their lives on the walls of their lairs
—Space/Reach: 10 feet/10 feet. and on tanned hide scrolls. Some are fond of music and play stone
—A hill giant’s base land speed is 40 feet. flutes and drums. Others make simple jewelry, fashioning painted
—Low-light vision. stone beads into necklaces.
—Racial Hit Dice: A hill giant begins with twelve levels of Most stone giants are playful, especially at night. They are fond
giant, which provide 12d8 Hit Dice, a base attack bonus of +8, and of rock-throwing contests and other games that test their might.
base saving throw bonuses of Fort +8, Ref +4, and Will +4. Groups of giants often gather to toss rocks at each other, the losing
—Racial Skills: A hill giant’s giant levels give it skill points side being those who are hit more often. Travelers’ reports of such
equal to 15 × (2 + Int modifier). Its class skills are Climb, Jump, contests have given stone giants their reputation for wildness.
Listen, and Spot. A stone giant’s bag usually contains 2d12 throwing rocks, 1d4+6
—Racial Feats: A hill giant’s giant levels give it five feats. mundane items, and the giant’s personal wealth. A stone giant’s
— +9 natural armor bonus. possessions are neither particularly clean nor particularly dirty,
—Special Attacks (see above): Rock throwing. but most of them are made from stone.
—Special Qualities (see above): Rock catching.
—Weapon and Armor Proficiency: A hill giant is automatically Combat
proficient with simple weapons, martial weapons, light and Stone giants fight from a distance whenever possible, but if they
medium armor, and shields. can’t avoid melee, they use gigantic clubs chiseled out of stone.
—Automatic Languages: Giant. Bonus Languages: Common, A favorite tactic of stone giants is to stand nearly motionless,
Draconic, Elven, Goblin, Orc. blending in with the background, then move forward to throw
—Favored Class: Barbarian. rocks and surprise their foes.
—Level adjustment +4. Rock Throwing (Ex): The range increment is 180 feet for a
stone giant’s thrown rocks. It uses both hands when throwing
STONE GIANT a rock.
Large Giant (Earth) Rock Catching (Ex): A stone giant gains a +4 racial bonus on
Hit Dice: 14d8+56 (119 hp) its Reflex save when attempting to catch a thrown rock.
Initiative: +2 Skills: *A stone giant gains a +8 racial bonus on Hide checks in
Speed: 30 ft. in hide armor (6 squares); base speed 40 ft. rocky terrain.
Armor Class: 25 (–1 size, +2 Dex, +11 natural, +3 hide), touch
11, flat-footed 23 Stone Giant Elders
Base Attack/Grapple: +10/+22 Some stone giants develop special abilities related to their envi-
Attack: Greatclub +17 melee (2d8+12) or slam +17 melee (1d4+8) ronment. These giant elders have Charisma scores of at least 15
or rock +11 ranged (2d8+12) and spell-like abilities, which they use as 10th-level sorcerers.
Full Attack: Greatclub +17/+12 melee (2d8+12) or 2 slams +17 Once per day they can use stone shape, stone tell, and either trans-
melee (1d4+8) or rock +11 ranged (2d8+12) mute rock to mud ortransmute mud to rock (DC 17). The save DC is
Space/Reach: 10 ft./10 ft. Charisma-based. One in ten elders is a sorcerer, usually of 3rd to
Special Attacks: Rock throwing 6th level.
Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft., low-light vision, rock
catching Stone Giant Society
124 Saves: Fort +13, Ref +6, Will +7 Stone giants prefer to dwell in deep caves high on rocky, storm-
Abilities: Str 27, Dex 15, Con 19, Int 10, Wis 12, Cha 11 swept mountains. Usually, groups live fairly close together (no
Skills: Climb +11, Hide +6*, Jump +11, Spot +12 more than a day’s travel apart) for a sense of community and

protection. Most stone giant lairs have 2d4 neighboring lairs. Challenge Rating: 13
Some older stone giants choose to live in solitude, meditating Treasure: Standard coins; double goods; standard items
and creating artwork. Many of them become elders after sev- Alignment: Often chaotic good
eral decades. Advancement: By character class
Most groups of stone giants subsist by hunting, gathering, and Level Adjustment: —
herding mountain animals such as sheep or goats. They trade with
any other nearby communities, exchanging foodstuffs and stone This giant resembles a well-formed human of enormous proportions. It
goods for cloth, pottery, and manufactured items. Groups of evil has light green skin, dark green hair, and glittering emerald eyes.
giants often go raiding or extort tolls from mountain travelers.
Storm giants are gentle and reclusive. They are usually tolerant of
Stone Giants as Characters others but can be very dangerous when angry.
Strong, silent loners, stone giant characters are a rare sight in Very rarely, storm giants have violet skin. Violet-skinned storm
human lands. giants have deep violet or blue-black hair with silvery gray or
