TROGLODYTE
rounds. The save DC is Constitution-based. Creatures
Medium Humanoid that successfully save cannot be affected by the
(Reptilian) same troglodyte’s stench for 24 hours. A delay
Hit Dice: 2d8+4 (13 hp) poisonorneutralize poison spell removes the effect
Initiative: –1 from the sickened creature. Creatures with immu-
Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares) nity to poison are unaffected, and creatures resistant
Armor Class: 15 (–1 Dex, to poison receive their normal
+6 natural), touch 9, bonus on their saving
flat-footed 15 throws.
Base Attack/Grapple: Skills: The
+1/+1 skin of a trog-
Attack: Club +1 melee lodyte changes
(1d6) or claw +1 melee color some-
(1d4) or javelin +1 what, allowing it to
ranged (1d6) blend in with its surround-
Full Attack: Club +1 melee ings like a chameleon and
(1d6) and claw –1 melee (1d4) and bite –1 melee (1d4); or 2 providing a +4 racial bonus
claws +1 melee (1d4) and bite –1 melee (1d4); or javelin +1 on Hide checks. *In rocky
ranged (1d6) or underground settings,
Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft. this bonus improves to +8.
Special Attacks: Stench
Special Qualities: Darkvision 90 ft. TROGLODYTE
Saves: Fort +5, Ref –1, Will +0 SOCIETY
Abilities: Str 10, Dex 9, Con 14, Int 8, Wis 10, Cha 10 Troglodyte tribes are ruled
Skills: Hide +5*, Listen +3 by the largest and fiercest
Feats: MultiattackB, Weapon Focus (javelin) among them, with sub-
Environment: Underground chieftains
Organization:Clutch (2–5), squad (6–11 plus 1–2 monitor who
lizards), or band (20–80 plus 20% noncombatants plus 3–13 have dis-
monitor lizards) tinguished them-
Challenge Rating: 1 selves in battle. Trogs like
Treasure: 50% coins; 50% goods; 50% items to lair near humanoid settle-
Alignment: Usually chaotic evil ments to prey on inhabi-
Advancement: By character class tants and their livestock.
Level Adjustment: +2 They raid on moonless
nights when their darkvision
This reptilian creature looks somewhat humanoid. It is a little shorter than and coloration are most ef-
a human. It has spindly but muscular arms and walks erect on its squat fective.
legs, trailing a long, slender tail. Its head is lizardlike and crowned with a
frill that extends from the forehead to the base of the neck. Its eyes are
246 black and beady.
Troglodyte

Troglodytes prize steel above all else. Though individuals usu- TROLL
ally have no wealth, a lair may contain valuable items casually dis-
carded, pushed into corners, or mixed in with refuse. The lair is This big, bipedal creature is about one and a half times as tall as a human
usually a large cave with smaller caves for the hatchlings and eggs. but very thin. It has long and ungainly arms and legs The legs end in great
A lair has hatchlings equal to one-fifth the number of adults and three-toed feet, the arms in wide, powerful hands with sharpened claws.
eggs equal to one-tenth. The hide is rubbery, and its hair is thick and ropy, and seems to writhe with
Troglodytes revere Laogzed, a vile deity who resembles a cross its own energy.
between a toad and a lizard.
Trolls are horrid carnivores found in all climes, from arctic waste-
TROGLODYTE CHARACTERS lands to tropical jungles. Most creatures avoid these beasts, who
Troglodyte characters possess the following racial traits. know no fear and attack unceasingly when hungry.
— –2 Dexterity, +4 Constitution, –2 Intelligence. Trolls have ravenous appetites, devouring everything from
—Medium size. grubs to bears and humanoids. They often lair near settlements
