TSUR
The check DCs are Strength-based, and the Escape Artist DC When it detects one, it dashes toward the source and attempts to
includes a +4 racial bonus. A roper can draw in a creature within strike it with its antennae. The creature is relentless, chasing char-
10 feet of itself and bite with a +4 attack bonus in the same round. acters over long distances if they still possess intact metal objects
A strand has 10 hit points and can be attacked by making a suc- but usually ceasing its attacks to devour a freshly rusted meal. A
cessful sunder attempt. However, attacking a roper’s strand does clever (or desperate) character can often distract a hungry rust
not provoke an attack of opportunity. If the strand is currently monster by tossing it some metal objects, then fleeing while it
attached to a target, the roper takes a –4 penalty on its opposed consumes them.
attack roll to resist the sunder attempt. Severing a strand deals no The creature targets the largest metal object available, striking
damage to a roper. first at armor, then at shields and smaller items. It prefers ferrous
Strands (Ex): Most encounters with a roper begin when it fires metals (steel or iron) over precious metals (such as gold or silver)
strong, sticky strands. The creature can have up to six strands at but will devour the latter if given the opportunity.
once, and they can strike up to 50 feet away (no range increment). Rust (Ex): A rust monster that makes a successful touch attack
If a strand is severed, the roper can extrude a new one on its next with its antennae causes the target metal to corrode, falling to
turn as a free action. pieces and becoming useless immediately. The touch can destroy
Weakness (Ex): A roper’s strands can sap an opponent’s up to a 10-foot cube of metal instantly. Magic armor and weapons,
strength. Anyone grabbed by a strand must succeed on a DC 18 and other magic items made of metal, must succeed on a DC 17
Fortitude save or take 2d8 points of Strength damage. The save DC Reflex save or be dissolved. The save DC is Constitution-based and
is Constitution-based. includes a +4 racial bonus.
Skills: *Ropers have a +8 racial bonus on Hide checks in stony A metal weapon that deals damage to a rust monster corrodes
or icy areas. immediately. Wooden, stone, and other nonmetallic weapons are
unaffected.
