VAMPIRE
day it can use neutralize poison (DC 21, caster level 8th) with a
touch of its horn. The save DC is Charisma-based. Forever anchored to their coffins and the unholy earth of their
Wild Empathy (Ex): This power works like the druid’s wild graves, these nocturnal predators scheme constantly to strengthen
empathy class feature, except that a unicorn has a +6 racial bonus themselves and fill the world with their foul progeny.
on the check. Vampires appear just as they did in life, although their features
Skills: Unicorns have a +4 racial bonus on Move Silently are often hardened and feral, with the predatory look of wolves.
checks. Like liches, they often embrace finery and decadence and may
*Unicorns have a +3 competence bonus on Survival checks assume the guise of nobility. Despite their human appearance,
within the boundaries of their forest. vampires can be easily recognized, for they cast no shadows and
throw no reflections in mirrors.
CELESTIAL CHARGER Vampires speak any languages they knew in life.
A celestial unicorn is a champion for good, the fierce enemy of
evil beings that would destroy woodlands and their inhabitants. It SAMPLE VAMPIRE
is a dedicated follower of Ehlonna. This sinister-looking warrior has pale skin, haunting red eyes, and a feral
The celestial charger described here is an 8 HD celestial cast to his features. He wears chain armor and holds a spiked chain in his
unicorn with seven levels of cleric. clawed hands.
Combat This example uses a 5th-level human fighter as the base creature.
The save DC for this celestial charger’s neutralize poison ability (DC
20) is adjusted for its greater Hit Dice and altered Charisma score. Vampire, 5th-Level Human Fighter
A celestial charger’s natural weapons are treated as magic weap- Medium Undead (Augmented Humanoid)
ons for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction. Hit Dice: 5d12 (32 hp)
Smite Evil (Su): Once per day a celestial charger can make a Initiative: +7
normal melee attack to deal 15 points of extra damage against an Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares)
evil foe. Armor Class: 23 (+3 Dex, +6 natural, +4 masterwork chain
Cleric Spells Prepared (6/7/6/5/4; save DC 18 + spell level): 0— shirt), touch 13, flat-footed 20
detect magic, detect poison (2), light, virtue (2); 1st—bless (2), calm ani- Base Attack/Grapple: +5/+11
mals*, obscuring mist, remove fear, sanctuary, shield of faith; 2nd—aid* Attack: Slam +11 melee (1d6+9 plus energy drain) or +1 spiked
(2), animal messenger, lesser restoration, remove paralysis, shield other; chain +13 melee (2d4+12) or masterwork shortbow +9 ranged
3rd—prayer, protection from energy, remove curse, searing light (2); (1d6/×3)
250 4th—air walk, divine power, holy smite*, restoration. Full Attack: Slam +11 melee (1d6+9 plus energy drain) or +1
*Domain spell. Domains: Animal and Good. spiked chain +13 melee (2d4+12) or masterwork shortbow +9
ranged (1d6/×3)

Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft. (10 ft. with spiked chain) plain sight, improved evasion, purity of body, resistance to
Special Attacks: Blood drain, children of the night, create cold 10 and electricity 10, shadow jump 20 ft., slow fall 40 ft.,
spawn, dominate, energy drain spider climb, still mind, uncanny dodge (Dex bonus to AC),
Special Qualities: Alternate form, damage reduction 10/silver undead traits, vampire weaknesses, wholeness of body
and magic, darkvision 60 ft., fast healing 5, gaseous form, Saves: Fort +7, Ref +16, Will +13
resistance to cold 10 and electricity 10, spider climb, undead Abilities: Str 20, Dex 19, Con —, Int 12, Wis 22, Cha 12
traits, vampire weaknesses Skills: Balance +22, Bluff +9, Climb +9, Hide +28, Jump +23,
Saves: Fort +4, Ref +6, Will +4 Listen +16, Move Silently +28, Perform (wind instruments) +7,
Abilities: Str 22, Dex 17, Con —, Int 12, Wis 16, Cha 12 Search +9, Sense Motive +14, Spot +16, Tumble +22
Skills: Bluff +9, Climb +10, Hide +10, Listen +17, Move Silently Feats: Alertness, Blind-Fight, Combat Reflexes, Deflect ArrowsB,
+10, Ride +11, Search +9, Sense Motive +11, Spot +17 Dodge, Improved Initiative, Improved DisarmB, Lightning
Feats: AlertnessB, Blind-Fight, Combat ReflexesB, DodgeB, Exotic Reflexes, Mobility, Spring Attack, Stunning FistB
Weapon Proficiency (spiked chain), Improved InitiativeB, Environment: Temperate forests VAMPIRE
Lightning ReflexesB, Mobility, Power Attack, Weapon Focus Organization: Solitary
(spiked chain), Weapon Specialization (spiked chain) Challenge Rating: 15
Environment: Temperate plains Treasure: Double standard
Organization: Solitary Alignment: Always evil (any)
Challenge Rating: 7 Advancement: By character class
Treasure: Double standard Level Adjustment: +8
Alignment: Always evil (any)
Advancement: By character class Combat
Level Adjustment: +5 This vampire’s unarmed strikes are treated as magic weapons for
the purpose of overcoming damage reduction.
Combat The DC is 17 for the Will save against this vampire’s domination
This vampire’s slam attack is treated as a magic weapon for the pur- ability, and for the Fortitude save to remove a negative level caused
pose of overcoming damage reduction. by its energy drain.
The DC is 13 for the Will save against this vampire’s domination Flurry of Blows (Ex): Use the full attack action to make one
ability, and for the Fortitude save to remove a negative level caused extra attack per round with an unarmed strike or a special monk
by its energy drain. weapon at her highest base attack, making the extra attack either
Possessions: +1 spiked chain, masterwork chain shirt, potion of haste. with her +2 keen kama or unarmed.
Ki Strike (Su): Deal damage to
SAMPLE ELITE VAMPIRE creatures with damage reduc-
This example uses a half-elf 9th-level tion using unarmed strike as
monk/4th-level shadowdancer as the Vampires though with a magic weapon.
base creature. Shadow Illusion (Sp): Create
visual illusions from shadows
Elite Vampire, 13th-Level Half-Elf as silent image once per day.
Monk/Shadowdancer Summon Shadow (Sp): Summon
Medium Undead (Augmented Humanoid) one shadow companion, which
Hit Dice: 13d12 (90 hp) cannot be turned, rebuked, or com-
Initiative: +8 manded by others. If the shadow
Speed: 60 ft. (12 squares) is destroyed or dismissed, the
Armor Class: 32 (+4 Dex, +6 natural, shadowdancer must succeed
+6 Wis, +1 intrinsic, bracers of on a DC 15 Fortitude save or
armor +3, ring of protection +2), lose 800 XP (400 XP on a suc-
touch 23, flat-footed 32 cessful save). A new shadow
Base Attack/Grapple: +9/+14 cannot be summoned for a
Attack: Unarmed strike +14 melee year and a day.
(1d10+5 plus energy drain) or +2 Half-Elf Traits (Ex): Immu-
keen kama +16 melee (1d6+7) or +1 nity to sleep spells and effects; +2
frost sling +14 ranged (1d4+1 plus 1d6 racial bonus on saves against
cold) enchantment spells or effects; low-
Full Attack: Unarmed strike +14/+14/+9 light vision (can see twice as far as a
melee (1d10+5 plus energy drain) or +2 human in low-light conditions); +1
keen kama +16/+16/+11 melee racial bonus on Listen, Spot, and
(1d6+7) or +1 frost sling +14 Search checks (already fig-
ranged (1d4+1 plus 1d6 cold) ured into the statistics given
Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft. here); +2 racial bonus on Diplomacy
Special Attacks: Blood drain, children and Gather Information checks.
of the night, create spawn, domi- Hide in Plain Sight (Su): Can use the
nate, energy drain, flurry of blows, Hide skill even while being observed as long
ki strike (magic), shadow illusion, as within 10 feet of a shadow.
summon shadow Improved Evasion (Ex): If the vampire makes
Special Qualities: Alternate a successful Reflex saving throw against an attack
form, damage reduction 10/silver and that normally deals half damage on a successful save, 251
magic, darkvision 60 ft., fast healing 5, she instead takes no damage. In addition, she takes
gaseous form, half-elf traits, hide in only half damage on a failed save.

Purity of Body (Ex): Immunity to all diseases except for magi- action. (If the base creature is not terrestrial, this power might
cal diseases such as mummy rot and lycanthropy. summon other creatures of similar power.) These creatures arrive
Shadow Jump (Sp): Travel instantaneously between shadows as a in 2d6 rounds and serve the vampire for up to 1 hour.
dimension door spell, up to 20 feet per day. Dominate (Su): A vampire can crush an opponent’s will just by
Slow Fall (Ex): A monk within arm’s reach of a wall takes looking onto his or her eyes. This is similar to a gaze attack, except
damage as if the fall were 40 feet shorter than it actually is. that the vampire must use a standard action, and those merely
Still Mind (Ex): +2 bonus on saves against enchantment spells looking at it are not affected. Anyone the vampire targets must
and effects. succeed on a Will save or fall instantly under the vampire’s influ-
Wholeness of Body (Su): Cure up to 18 hit points of her own ence as though by a dominate person spell (caster level 12th). The
wounds each day. ability has a range of 30 feet.
Possessions: +2 keen kama, +1 frost sling, 10 +1 sling bullets, ring of pro- Create Spawn (Su): A humanoid or monstrous humanoid slain by
tection +2, bracers of armor +3, periapt of Wisdom +4. a vampire’s energy drain rises as a vampire spawn (see the Vampire
ERIPMAV Spawn entry, page 253) 1d4 days after burial.
CREATING A VAMPIRE If the vampire instead drains the victim’s Constitution to 0 or
“Vampire” is an acquired template that can be added to any lower, the victim returns as a spawn if it had 4 or less HD and as a
humanoid or monstrous humanoid creature (referred to hereafter vampire if it had 5 or more HD. In either case, the new vampire or
as the base creature). spawn is under the command of the vampire that created it and
A vampire uses all the base creature’s statistics and special abili- remains enslaved until its master’s destruction. At any given time
ties except as noted here. a vampire may have enslaved spawn totaling no more than twice
Size and Type: The creature’s type changes to undead (aug- its own Hit Dice; any spawn it creates that would exceed this limit
mented humanoid or monstrous humanoid). Do not recalculate are created as free-willed vampires or vampire spawn. A vampire
base attack bonus, saves, or skill points. Size is unchanged. that is enslaved may create and enslave spawn of its own, so a
Hit Dice: Increase all current and future Hit Dice to d12s. master vampire can control a number of lesser vampires in this
Speed: Same as the base creature. If the base creature has a fashion. A vampire may voluntarily free an enslaved spawn in or-
swim speed, the vampire retains the ability to swim and is not vul- der to enslave a new spawn, but once freed, a vampire or vampire
nerable to immersion in running water (see below). spawn cannot be enslaved again.
Armor Class: The base creature’s natural armor bonus im- Energy Drain (Su): Living creatures hit by a vampire’s slam attack
proves by +6. (or any other natural weapon the vampire might possess) gain two
Attack: A vampire retains all the attacks of the base creature negative levels. For each negative level bewtowed, the vampire
and also gains a slam attack if it didn’t already have one. If the base gains 5 temporary hit points. A vampire can use its energy drain
creature can use weapons, the vampire retains this ability. A crea- ability once per round.
ture with natural weapons retains those natural weapons. A vam- Special Qualities: A vampire retains all the special qualities of
pire fighting without weapons uses either its slam attack or its pri- the base creature and gains those described below.
mary natural weapon (if it has any). A vampire armed with a Alternate Form (Su): A vampire can assume the shape of a bat,
weapon uses its slam or a weapon, as it desires. dire bat, wolf, or dire wolf as a standard action. This ability is simi-
Full Attack: A vampire fighting without weapons uses either its lar to a polymorph spell cast by a 12th-level character, except that
slam attack (see above) or its natural weapons (if it has any). If armed the vampire does not regain hit points for changing form and
with a weapon, it usually uses the weapon as its primary attack along must choose from among the forms mentioned here. While in its
with a slam or other natural weapon as a natural secondary attack. alternate form, the vampire loses its natural slam attack and domi-
Damage: Vampires have slam attacks. If the base creature does nate ability, but it gains the natural weapons and extraordinary
not have this attack form, use the appropriate damage value from special attacks of its new form. It can remain in that form until it
the table below according to the vampire’s size. Creatures that assumes another or until the next sunrise. (If the base creature is
have other kinds of natural weapons retain their old damage not terrestrial, this power might allow other forms.)
values or use the appropriate value from the table below, Damage Reduction (Su): A vampire has damage reduction
whichever is better. 10/silver and magic. A vampire’s natural weapons are treated as
Size Damage magic weapons for the purpose of overcoming damage reduction.
Fine 1 Fast Healing (Ex): A vampire heals 5 points of damage each
Diminutive 1d2 round so long as it has at least 1 hit point. If reduced to 0 hit points
Tiny 1d3 in combat, it automatically assumes gaseous form and attempts to
Small 1d4 escape. It must reach its coffin home within 2 hours or be utterly
Medium 1d6 destroyed. (It can travel up to nine miles in 2 hours.) Any addi-
Large 1d8 tional damage dealt to a vampire forced into gaseous form has no
Huge 2d6 effect. Once at rest in its coffin, a vampire is helpless. It regains 1
Gargantuan 2d8 hit point after 1 hour, then is no longer helpless and resumes heal-
Colossal 4d6 ing at the rate of 5 hit points per round.
Special Attacks: A vampire retains all the special attacks of Gaseous Form (Su): As a standard action, a vampire can assume
the base creature and gains those described below. Saves have a gaseous form at will as the spell (caster level 5th), but it can remain
DC of 10 + 1/2 vampire’s HD + vampire’s Cha modifier unless gaseous indefinitely and has a fly speed of 20 feet with perfect
noted otherwise. maneuverability.
Blood Drain (Ex): A vampire can suck blood from a living victim Resistances (Ex): A vampire has resistance to cold 10 and electric-
with its fangs by making a successful grapple check. If it pins the ity 10.
foe, it drains blood, dealing 1d4 points of Constitution drain each Spider Climb (Ex): A vampire can climb sheer surfaces as though
round the pin is maintained. On each such successful attack, the with a spider climb spell.
vampire gains 5 temporary hit points. Turn Resistance (Ex): A vampire has +4 turn resistance.
252 Children of the Night (Su): Vampires command the lesser crea- Abilities: Increase from the base creature as follows: Str +6,
tures of the world and once per day can call forth 1d6+1 rat Dex +4, Int +2, Wis +2, Cha +4. As an undead creature, a vampire
swarms, 1d4+1 bat swarms, or a pack of 3d6 wolves as a standard has no Constitution score.

Skills: Vampires have a +8 racial bonus on Bluff, Hide, Listen, Vampire Characters
Move Silently, Search, Sense Motive, and Spot checks. Otherwise Vampires are always evil, which causes characters of certain
same as the base creature. classes to lose some class abilities, as noted in Chapter 3 of the
Feats: Vampires gain Alertness, Combat Reflexes, Dodge, Player’s Handbook. In addition, certain classes take additional
Improved Initiative, and Lightning Reflexes, assuming the base penalties.
creature meets the prerequisites and doesn’t already have these Clerics: Vampire clerics lose their ability to turn undead but
feats. gain the ability to rebuke undead. This ability does not affect the
Environment: Any, usually same as base creature. vampire’s controller or any other vampires that a master controls.
Organization: Solitary, pair, gang (3–5), or troupe (1–2 plus A vampire cleric has access to two of the following domains:
2–5 vampire spawn) Chaos, Destruction, Evil, or Trickery.
Challenge Rating: Same as the base creature +2. Sorcerers and Wizards: Vampire sorcerers and wizards retain
Treasure: Double standard. their class abilities, but if a character has a familiar other than a rat
Alignment: Always evil (any). or bat, the link between them is broken, and the familiar shuns its VAMPIRE
