VAMPIRE SPAWN
For all their power, vampires have a number of weak-
nesses. Medium Undead
Repelling a Vampire: Vampires cannot tolerate Hit Dice: 4d12+3 (29 hp)
the strong odor of garlic and will not enter an area Initiative: +6
laced with it. Similarly, they recoil from a mirror or Speed: 30 ft. (6 squares)
a strongly presented holy symbol. These things don’t Armor Class: 15 (+2 Dex, +3 natural), touch 12, flat-footed 13
harm the vampire—they merely keep it at bay. A Base Attack/Grapple: +2/+5
recoiling vampire must stay at least 5 feet away Attack: Slam +5 melee (1d6+4 plus energy drain)
from a creature holding the mirror Full Attack: Slam +5 melee (1d6+4 plus energy
or holy symbol and cannot touch drain)
or make melee attacks against the Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft.
creature holding the item for Special Attacks: Blood drain, domination,
the rest of the encounter. Hold- energy drain
ing a vampire at bay takes a stan- Special Qualities: +2 turn resistance,
dard action. damage reduction 5/silver, darkvision
Vampires are also unable to 60 ft., fast healing 2, gaseous form, resist-
cross running water, although ance to cold 10 and electricity 10, spider
they can be carried over it climb, undead traits
while resting in their Saves: Fort +1, Ref +5, Will +5
coffins or aboard a ship. Abilities: Str 16, Dex 14, Con —, Int 13,
They are utterly unable to Wis 13, Cha 14
enter a home or other Skills: Bluff +6, Climb +8, Craft or
building unless invited in Profession (any one) +4, Diplomacy
by someone with the +4, Hide +10, Jump +8, Listen +11,
authority to do so. They Move Silently +10, Search +8, Sense
may freely enter public Motive +11, Spot +11
places, since these are by Feats: AlertnessB, Improved InitiativeB,
definition open to all. Lightning ReflexesB, Skill Focus
Slaying a Vampire: Reduc- (selected Craft or Profession skill), Toughness
ing a vampire’s hit points to 0 or lower Environment: Any
incapacitates it but doesn’t always Organization:Solitary or pack (2–5)
destroy it (see the note on fast heal- Challenge Rating: 4
ing). However, certain attacks can Treasure: Standard
slay vampires. Alignment: Always evil (any)
Exposing any vampire Advancement: —
to direct sunlight disori- Level Adjustment: —
ents it: It can take only a
single move action or This feral-looking creature virtually
attack action and is drips with evil. Its garb is noble-look-
destroyed utterly in the ing, though in a state of disrepair. Its
next round if it cannot dark red mouth is dominated by a
escape. Similarly, immers- pair of vicious-looking canine teeth.
ing a vampire in running water robs it of
one-third of its hit points each round until it is Vampire spawn are undead crea-
destroyed at the end of the third round of immersion. Vampire spawn tures that come into being when vampires slay
Driving a wooden stake through a vampire’s heart mortals. Like their creators, spawn remain bound
instantly slays the monster. However, it returns to life if the stake to their coffins and to the soil of their graves.
is removed, unless the body is destroyed. A popular tactic is to cut Vampire spawn appear much as they did in life, although their 253
off the creature’s head and fill its mouth with holy wafers (or their features are often hardened, with a predatory look.
equivalent). Vampire spawn speak Common.

COMBAT Challenge Rating: 2
Vampire spawn use their inhuman strength when engaging mor- Treasure: None
tals, hammering their foes with powerful blows and dashing them Alignment: Always neutral evil
against rocks or walls. They also use their gaseous form and flight Advancement: 2–3 HD (Small)
abilities to strike where opponents are most vulnerable. Level Adjustment: —
Blood Drain (Ex): A vampire spawn can suck blood from a
living victim with its fangs by making a successful grapple check. This creature looks like a hideous, distorted
If it pins the foe, it drains blood, dealing 1d4 points of Constitu- human head suspended from leathery wings.
tion drain each round. On each such successful drain attack, In place of hair, it is crowned with
the vampire spawn gains 5 temporary hit pints. writhing tendrils, and its eyes burn with
Domination (Su): A vampire spawn can crush an oppo- a menacing green flame.
ELLIUOGRAVonallerA nent’s will just by looking onto his or her eyes. This is sim-
ilar to a gaze attack, except that the vampire must take a
standard action, and those merely looking at it are not
affected. Anyone the vampire targets must succeed on a
DC 14 Will save or fall instantly under the vampire’s
influence as though by a dominate person spell from a 5th-
level caster. The ability has a range of 30 feet. The
save DC is Charisma-based.
Energy Drain (Su): Living creatures hit by a vam-
pire spawn’s slam attack gain one negative level. The
DC is 14 for the Fortitude save to remove a negative
level. The save DC is Charisma-based. For each such nega-
tive level bestowed, the vampire spawn gains 5 temporary hit
points. These revolting creatures come
Fast Healing (Ex): A vampire spawn heals 2 points of into the world from the deepest
damage each round so long as it has at least 1 hit point. If pits of the plane of Carceri. They
reduced to 0 hit points in combat, it automatically assumes haunt graveyards, ruins, and other
gaseous form and attempts to escape. It must reach its places of death and decay.
coffin home within 2 hours or be utterly destroyed. (It A vargouille is slightly larger than a
can travel up to nine miles in 2 hours.) Once at rest in its human head, about 18 inches high, with
coffin, it is helpless. It regains 1 hit point after 1 hour, a wingspan of 4 feet. It weighs about 10
then is no longer helpless and resumes healing at the rate pounds.
of 2 hit points per round. Vargouilles speak Infernal.
.C Gaseous Form (Su): As a standard action, a vampire
yb spawn can assume gaseous form at will as the spell (caster level COMBAT
.sullI
6th), but it can remain gaseous indefinitely and has a fly speed Vargouilles attack by
of 20 feet with perfect maneuverability. biting with their jagged teeth.
Spider Climb (Ex): A vampire spawn can climb sheer surfaces Their special attacks make
as though with a spider climb spell. them even more dangerous.
Skills: Vampire spawn have a +4 racial bonus on Bluff, Hide, Vargouille A vargouille’s natural weapons,
Listen, Move Silently, Search, Sense Motive, and Spot checks. as well as any weapons it wields,
are treated as evil-aligned for the purpose of overcoming damage
VAMPIRE SPAWN WEAKNESSES reduction.
Vampire spawn are vulnerable to all attacks and effects that repel Shriek (Su): Instead of biting, a vargouille can open its dis-
or slay vampires. For details, see the Vampire entry. tended mouth and let out a terrible shriek. Those within 60 feet
(except other vargouilles) who hear the shriek and can clearly see
the creature must succeed on a DC 12 Fortitude save or be para-
