VARGOUILLE
lyzed with fear for 2d4 rounds or until the monster attacks them,
Small Outsider (Evil, Extraplanar) goes out of range, or leaves their sight. A paralyzed creature is sus-
Hit Dice: 1d8+1 (5 hp) ceptible to the vargouille’s kiss (see below). A creature that suc-
Initiative: +1 cessfully saves cannot be affected again by the same vargouille’s
Speed: Fly 30 ft. (good) (6 squares) shriek for 24 hours. The shriek is a mind-affecting fear effect. The
Armor Class: 12 (+1 size, +1 Dex), touch 11, flat-footed 11 save DC is Constitution-based and includes a +1 racial bonus.
Base Attack/Grapple: +1/–3 iss (Su): A vargouille can kiss a paralyzed target with a suc-
Attack: Bite +3 melee (1d4 plus poison) cessful melee touch attack. An affected opponent must succeed on
Full Attack: Bite +3 melee (1d4 plus poison) a DC 15 Fortitude save or begin a terrible transformation that
Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft. turns the creature into a vargouille within 24 hours (and often
Special Attacks: Shriek, kiss, poison much sooner; roll 1d6 separately for each phase of the transforma-
Special Qualities: Darkvision 60 ft. tion). First, over a period of 1d6 hours, all the victim’s hair falls out.
Saves: Fort +3, Ref +3, Will +3 Within another 1d6 hours thereafter, the ears grow into leathery
Abilities: Str 10, Dex 13, Con 12, Int 5, Wis 12, Cha 8 wings, tentacles sprout on the chin and scalp, and the teeth
Skills: Hide +9, Intimidate +3, Listen +5, Move Silently +5, become long, pointed fangs. During the next 1d6 hours, the
Spot +5 victim takes Intelligence drain and Charisma drain equal to 1
254 Feats: Weapon Finesse point per hour (to a minimum of 3). The transformation is com-
Environment: Tarterian Depths of Carceri plete 1d6 hours later, when the head breaks free of the body
Organization:Cluster (2–5) or mob (6–11) (which promptly dies) and becomes a vargouille.

This transformation is interrupted by sunlight, and even a day- COMBAT
lightspell can delay death, but to reverse the transformation re- Wights attack by hammering with their fists.
quires remove disease. The save DC is Constitution-based and Create Spawn (Su): Any humanoid slain by a wight
includes a +4 racial bonus. becomes a wight in 1d4 rounds. Spawn are under the
Poison (Ex): Injury, Fortitude DC 12 or be unable to command of the wight that created them and remain
heal the vargouille’s bite damage naturally or magi- enslaved until its death. They do not possess any of
cally. A neutralize poison orhealspell removes the the abilities they had in life.
effect, while delay poison allows magical heal- Energy Drain (Su): Living creatures hit
ing. The save DC is Constitution-based and by a wight’s slam attack gain one negative
includes a +1 racial bonus. level. The DC is 14 for the Fortitude save to
remove a negative level. The save DC is
