WRAITH
weak animals, they don’t hesitate to hunt humanoids, particularly
when game is scarce. Worgs may stalk humanoid prey for hours or This creature is a sinister, spectral figure robed in darkness. It has no visi-
even days before attacking, and choose the most advantageous ter- ble features or appendages, except for the glowing red pinpoints of its eyes.
rain and time of day to do so (during the predawn hours, for
example). Wraiths are incorporeal creatures born of evil and darkness. They
A typical worg has gray or black fur, grows to 5 feet long and despise all living things, as well as the light that nurtures them.
stands 3 feet tall at the shoulder. It weighs 300 pounds. In some cases, the grim silhouette of a wraith might appear
More intelligent than their smaller cousins, worgs speak their armored or outfitted with weapons. This appearance does not
own language. Some can also speak Common and Goblin. affect the creature’s AC or combat abilities but only reflects the
shape it had in life.
Worgs
257

A wraith is about as tall as a human, while a dread wraith is enslaved until its death. They do not possess any of the abilities
roughly the size of an ogre. Since both are incorporeal, they are they had in life.
weightless.
Wraiths speak Common and Infernal. DREAD WRAITH
The oldest and most malevolent wraiths
COMBAT lurk in the depths of forgotten tem-
Both the wraith and the dread wraith share the following ples and other forsaken places. They
abilities. can sense the approach of living crea-
Unnatural Aura (Su): Animals, whether tures, and hunger for them. Despite its
wild or domesticated, can sense the unnatu- size, the dread wraith possesses un-
ral presence of a wraith at a distance of 30 earthly quickness, and makes use of its
feet. They will not willingly approach Spring Attack feat and natural reach to
HTIARW nearer than that and panic if forced to do strike with deadly effect and melt
so; they remain panicked as long as they are back into the shadows—or the walls.
within that range. Lifesense (Su): A dread wraith
Daylight Powerlessness (Ex): Wraiths are notices and locates living creatures
utterly powerless in natural sunlight (not within 60 feet, just as if it possessed
merely a daylightspell) and flee from it. Wraith the blindsight ability. It also senses the
strength of their life force automati-
WRAITH cally, as if it had cast deathwatch.
Close combat with a wraith is dangerous, thanks Constitution Drain (Su): Living crea-
to its deadly touch. tures hit by a dread wraith’s incorporeal touch
Constitution Drain (Su): Living crea- attack must succeed on a DC 25 Fortitude save
tures hit by a wraith’s incorporeal touch or take 1d8 points of Constitution drain. The save
attack must succeed on a DC 14 Fortitude DC is Charisma-based. On each such successful attack,
save or take 1d6 points of Constitution the dread wraith gains 5 temporary hit points.
drain. The save DC is Charisma-based. On Create Spawn (Su): Any humanoid slain by a dread wraith
each such successful attack, the wraith becomes a wraith in 1d4 rounds. Its body remains intact and
gains 5 temporary hit points. inanimate, but its spirit is torn free from its corpse and
Create Spawn (Su): Any humanoid slain by a wraith becomes a transformed. Spawn are under the command of the wraith that
wraith in 1d4 rounds. Its body remains intact and inanimate, but created them and remain enslaved until its death. They do not pos-
its spirit is torn free from its corpse and transformed. Spawn are sess any of the abilities they had in life.
under the command of the wraith that created them and remain
Wraith DreadWraith
MediumUndead (Incorporeal) Large Undead (Incorporeal)
HitDice: 5d12(32hp) 16d12(104hp)
Initiative: +7 +13
Speed: Fly60ft.(good)(12squares) Fly60ft.(good)(12squares)
ArmorClass: 15(+3Dex,+2deflection),touch15,flat-footed12 25(–1size,+9Dex,+7deflection),touch25,flat-footed16
BaseAttack/Grapple: +2/— +8/—
Attack: Incorporealtouch+5melee(1d4plus1d6 Incorporealtouch+16melee(2d6plus1d8
Constitutiondrain) Constitutiondrain)
FullAttack: Incorporealtouch+5melee(1d4plus1d6 Incorporealtouch+16melee(2d6plus1d8
Constitutiondrain) Constitutiondrain)
Space/Reach: 5ft./5ft. 10ft./10ft.
SpecialAttacks: Constitutiondrain,createspawn Constitutiondrain,createspawn
SpecialQualities: Darkvision60ft.,daylightpowerlessness, Darkvision60ft.,daylightpowerlessness,incorporeal
incorporealtraits,+2turnresistance, traits,lifesense60ft.,undeadtraits,unnaturalaura
undeadtraits,unnaturalaura
Saves: Fort+1,Ref+4,Will+6 Fort+5,Ref+14,Will+14
Abilities: Str—,Dex16,Con—, Str—,Dex28,Con—,
Int14,Wis14,Cha15 Int17,Wis18,Cha24
Skills: Diplomacy+6,Hide+11,Intimidate+10, Diplomacy+9,Hide+24,Intimidate+26,
Listen+12,Search+10,SenseMotive+8, Knowledge(religion)+22,Listen+25,Search+22,
Spot+12,Survival+2(+4followingtracks) SenseMotive+23,Spot+25,Survival+4
(+6followingtracks)
Feats: AlertnessB,Blind-Fight,CombatReflexes, AlertnessB,Blind-Fight,CombatReflexes,
ImprovedInitiativeB Dodge,ImprovedInitiativeB,ImprovedNatural
Attack(incorporealtouch),Mobility,SpringAttack
Environment: Any Any
Organization: Solitary,gang(2–5),orpack(6–11) Solitary
ChallengeRating: 5 11
Treasure: None None
258 Alignment: Alwayslawfulevil Alwayslawfulevil
Advancement: 6–10HD(Medium) 17–32HD(Large)
LevelAdjustment: — —

