YPRAH
attacks. The effect continues for as long as the harpy sings and for
Deep Halfling 1 round thereafter. A bard’s countersong ability allows the capti-
This humanoid stands a little less than half as high as a human. It has a vated creature to attempt a new Will save.
stocky but athletic build, ruddy skin, straight black hair, and dark eyes. Skills: Harpies have a +4 racial bonus on Bluff and Listen
checks.
These halflings are shorter and stockier than the more common
lightfeet. HARPY ARCHER
Deep halflings are about 2-1/2 tall and weigh between 30 and 35 A cruel hunter and roaming brigand, the harpy archer has trained
pounds. Deep halflings take great pleasure in gems and fine as a fighter specializing in ranged combat. Harpy archers often
masonry, often working as jewelers or stonecutters. They rarely become mercenaries, selling their services to the highest bidder.
mix with humans and elves but enjoy the company of dwarves When not employed, they make ends meet as highway robbers,
and speak Dwarven fluently. forcing merchant caravans to pay protection money.
Deep Halfling Traits (Ex): These traits are in addition to the
lightfoot halfling traits, except where noted. Combat
—Darkvision out to 60 feet. Captivating Song (Su): Will DC 17 negates.
—Stonecunning: Like dwarves, deep halflings have a +2 racial Possessions: +3 studded leather, +1 frost composite longbow (+1 Str
bonus on checks to notice unusual stonework. Something that bonus), 10 cold iron arrows, 10 silvered arrows, 5 +2 arrows, lesser
isn’t stone but that is disguised as stone also counts as unusual bracers of archery, potion of cure moderate
stonework. A deep halfling who merely comes within 10 feet of wounds, potion of cat’s grace, cloak of resist-
unusual stonework can make a check as though actively search- ance +2, ring of protection +1. (Different
ing and can use the Search skill to find stonework traps as a harpy archers may have differ-
rogue can. A deep halfling can also intuit depth, sensing the ent possessions.)
approximate distance underground as naturally as a human can
sense which way is up.
— +2 racial bonus on Appraise checks and Craft checks that
are related to stone or metal.
—Deep halflings are less athletic than lightfoot halflings
and do not have a racial bonus on Climb, Jump, and Move
Silently checks.
