YUAN-TI
Treasure: None
Alignment: Often neutral The yuan-ti are descended from humans whose bloodlines have
Advancement: 13–16 HD (Huge); 17–36 HD (Gargantuan) been mingled with those of snakes. Their evilness, cunning, and
Level Adjustment: — ruthlessness are legendary.
Yuan-ti constantly scheme to advance their own dark agendas.
This creature resembles an eyeless, yellow-green flying reptile with fleshy They are calculating and suave enough to form alliances with
wings, a long tail, and a large fin on its back. It has single hornlike protru- other evil creatures when necessary, but they always put their own
sion on its crocodilian head. interests first.
All yuan-ti possess some snakelike features, and many have
A strange predator from desolate wastelands, the yrthak terrorizes snake body parts.
the area it inhabits as an always hungry dragon might. Yuan-ti speak their own language, plus Common, Draconic, and
A yrthak is blind. It senses sound and movement by means of a Abyssal.
special organ on its long tongue. It emits powerfully focused
262 beams of sound from the protrusion on its head. The creature is a COMBAT
yellowish-green color, with the wings and fin being more yellow Yuan-ti are geniuses and fight as such. They plan elaborate traps
and the head and body more green. The teeth are yellow. and utilize their surroundings superbly in combat, preferring

ambushes to direct confrontation. They also prefer ranged attacks Space/Reach: 5 ft./5 ft.
and spells to melee. Special Attacks: Spell-like abilities
In a mixed group, the least valuable and powerful attack first. Special Qualities: Alternate form, darkvision 60 ft., detect poison,
This means that the purebloods go before the halfbloods, which spell resistance 14
go before the abominations. The group leader may order particular Saves: Fort +1, Ref +5, Will +4
members forward before others if that makes for better strategy. Abilities: Str 11, Dex 13, Con 11, Int 12, Wis 10, Cha 12
Alternate Form (Sp): All yuan-ti can assume the form of a Tiny to Skills: Concentration +7, Disguise +4*, Hide +3, Knowledge (any
Large viper (see the Snake entry, page 280) as a psionic ability. This one) +5, Listen +4, Spot +4
ability is similar to a polymorph spell (caster level 19th), but a yuan- Feats: AlertnessB, Blind-FightB, Dodge, Improved Initiative
ti does not regain any hit points for changing form, and it can only Environment: Warm forests
assume viper forms. The yuan-ti loses its natural weapons (if any) Organization: Solitary, pair, gang (3–4), troupe (2–13 pure-
and gains the natural weapon of the viper form it assumes. If the bloods, 2–5 halfbloods, and 2–4 abominations), or tribe
yuan-ti has a poisonous bite of its own, it uses its own or the viper’s (20–160 purebloods, 10–80 halfbloods, and 10–40 abomina- YUAN-TI
poison, whichever is more potent. tions)
Detect Poison (Sp): All yuan-ti have the psionic ability to detect Challenge Rating: 3
poison as the spell (caster level 6th). Treasure: Double standard
Alignment: Usually chaotic evil
YUAN-TI CHARACTERS Advancement: By character class
The favored class for yuan-ti purebloods and Level Adjustment: +2
halfbloods is ranger. Yuan-ti abominations
favor the cleric class. Yuan-ti clerics wor- This being looks much like a
ship Merrshaulk. A yuan-ti cleric has slim-hipped, lithe human
access to two of the following do- Yuan-ti with sharp features and
mains: Chaos, Evil, Destruction, or unblinking eyes. A closer
Plant. look, however, reveals a
forked tongue, pointed teeth,
